Kasapreko Company limited (KCL), a leading beverage producing company Ghana has emerged among the Top 25 most admired brands in Africa. This was announced at the 7th annual Brand Africa report in Belgium on the May 24, 2019. KCL is the only Ghanaian business that made it to the top 25 most admired brands in Africa, according to the report unveiled by Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in partnership with Geopoll , Kantar, Brand Leadership and Africa Business Magazine. Brand Africa 100 is a Pan Africa survey and ranking of Africa's best brand developed by Brand Leadership. The rankings are based on comprehensive survey by Geopoll, a global leader in providing high quality market research in emerging markets and strategies analysis weighted by consumer admiration and Kantar, the world leading Data, Insight and consulting firm. The company beats brands such as Amarula, Jumia , Kenya Airways, Ethiopian Airlines, Star Beer, Kwese among others in the categories of Alcoholic Beverages, Retail, Aviation, Food , Media and Personal Care. Commenting on the award in an interview, Mr. Richard Adjei, Managing Director of KCL said, "The honour is dedicated to the hard working staff of the company, Key distributors and partners for their support towards growth to the organisation." He also thanked the customers and consumers of kasapreko brands on the continent which has seen the company been ranked as the most indigenous Ghana beverage provider in Africa. Mr. Gerald Bonsu, the commercial Director also added that the company's brand portfolio holds the most loved brands such as Alomo Bitters, Storm Energy Drink, Awake Purified Drinking Waater , K20 Whiskey, sold in the world. Mr. Bonsu assured that the flagship brand of the product of KCL; Alomo Bitters is in its 20th year and was still a product of choice for consumers. Alomo Bitters which is a scientifically formulated herbal alcoholic beverage has met all international students selling in many countries across the world. Kasapreko Company limited is a multi National total beverage company having with product line categories such as Water, Wine, Cuder, Liquor and whiskey.