Nairobi — Will the new generation bank notes help curb corruption? The debate following Madaraka Day announcement by the Central Bank of Kenya continues as various people, among them foreign envoys express their opinion about the move, termed by many as revolutionary. United Kingdom High Commissioner to Kenya Nic Hailey termed the announcement as "great news" saying the plunderers of taxpayers' money will have to explain their source of money. "A tough stand on corruption," the envoy said while applauding State House for the renewed efforts to get rid of the menace, which has seen Kenyans deprived of their rightful share of services as a few cash in on their misery. "This announcement on the 1,000 bob note is great news. Anyone who has been stashing proceeds of corruption in cash, to avoid oversight, will have to explain where their wealth came from," read a post on his Twitter handle, @HCNicHailey. The envoy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Kenya, Somalia and Seychelles Frans Makken said it is a "great sign from Kenya's leadership. Corruption equals stealing from the public and prevents a country to prosper at its full potential." His message was also attached to the European Union Delegation to Kenya. The delegation applauded President Uhuru Kenyatta over the move, which they said will "create a more conducive and accountable business environment, also for the many European companies operating in Kenya and create even more jobs for Kenyans." They added: "President Kenyatta's speech on #MadarakaDay to effectively fight corruption by issuing new banknotes, suspend double control of imports and ensure the Government pays its dues to the Private Sector is a further confirmation of the President's commitment to a prospering economy." Annett Günther, German Ambassador to Kenya, Somalia and the Seychelles said it was "a bold move" against corruption. On his part, United States Ambassador to Kenya Ambassador Kyle McCarter said, "I agree with HC Nic Hailey. Great news. One more tool that can be used to stop the plague of thievery keeping the Wananchi from the prosperity they deserve. #StopTheseThieves." Chargé d'Affaires at the Embassy of Ireland in Kenya Lisa Doherty said it was a timely bold move by Kenya's leadership "to try to stop corruption and theft from the Wananchi." Evidently, the move by CBK has renewed a fresh breath in the renewed war on corruption and as expected it has drawn a myriad of reactions from the Kenya leadership.