Amanfro — The Municipal Chief Executive (MCE) for Ga South Municipality, Mr Joseph Nyarni Stephen, has announced that the assembly's taskforce would intensify efforts to rake in more revenue, to achieve its infrastructure development targets. He said though the assembly was able to collect 88 per cent of Internal Generated Funds last year, that was not enough for the implementation of the numerous development projects. Mr Narni, who was speaking at a town hall meeting held at Amanfrom, in the Ga South Municipality on Monday, expressed worry that the apathy of the people in paying taxes, was setting the development of the area back. The meeting enabled the assembly officials to account for its 2018 budget, give highlights of the 2019 budget, and to answer pertinent questions bordering on development from the people. The MCE reminded the people that their demand for development and social services should be backed by the civic responsibilities, which included prompt and regular payment of taxes. Mr Narni said though the assembly was established about one-and-half years ago, it had ensured development and progress of people in the municipality. According to him, the overall vision of the assembly was to ensure effective revenue mobilisation, promote sanitation, health and education. Mr Narni said despite efforts by the assembly to improve the welfare and development of the people, the area was facing challenges, including; poor roads, inadequate classroom blocks, health facilities, insecurity, sanitation, which required urgent attention. He, therefore, appealed to the chiefs and people to support Assembly members tackle the problems, saying the government alone could not satisfy their needs. Mr Narni pledged that the assembly would formulate good programmes and consider suggestions by all stakeholders to ensure the development of the area. On crime, he said the District Security Coordinating Council was working to track down criminal activities, to enable the citizens go about their daily activities peacefully. Participants at the meeting promised to support the assembly to deliver on its mandate, and appealed to the authorities to tackle sanitation, security, and drainage problems, affecting development.