Ola Rotimi's comedy, Our husband has gone mad again, will be staged at Merit House, Maitama, Abuja, from today to Sunday, June 16, 2019. Performances start by 4:00pm and 7:00pm. Diamanté Global Services is producing the play in partnership with Mosaic Theatre Production and Cruise Entertainment. The production features popular Nigerian actors such as, Patrick Diabuah, Omololu Sodiya, Ada Erojikwe and others. The play is a rib cracking comedy that contains no politically stimulated scenes and makes no direct reference to any personality. It tells the story of Lejoka-Brown, an ex military major, who has taken to politics so that he can partake in sharing of 'national chin chin'. One of his problems is that he does not have the slightest understanding of the workings of politics, relying instead on his military tactics and manoeuvres to conduct his 'surprise and attack' campaign. Even bigger problems are his three wives! He inherited Mama Rashida from his late brother; the feisty and upfront Sikira was purely a strategic marriage, because her mother was president of the National Union of Nigerian Market Women, whose votes will be vital to him winning a political post; then there is Liza, the westernized woman he married while fighting in the Congo. The period of anagnorisis occurs when Liza, who has been studying to become a doctor in the USA, decides to join her husband in Nigeria in the middle of his political campaign and crisis erupts, because she is unaware of her other 'sisters in marriage'. Directed and produced by Agozie Ugwu, who has been equally involved in a number of stage productions in Lagos, Abuja and many other Nigerian cities in the past 10 years and has been a constant name in major theatre halls all over the country, such as, Terra Kulture and National Theatre in Lagos; Sheraton Hotel and Transcorp Hilton in Abuja. This is the fourth time the ace producer will be directing the play, in which he had earlier featured the actor, Ramsey Nouah, in Abuja.Ugwu said that he and his team are passionate about theatre and have toured the country for a decade, becoming a change agent in the industry and successfully awakening theatre in cities like Abuja. The same performance will be repeated in the 10 shows and this is deliberately designed to ensure that everyone who wants to see this performance gets an opportunity depending on their preferred date and time.