Washington D.C. — Today, in a violent offensive action, Sudanese security forces attacked peaceful protesters in the capital Khartoum, killing at least 13 people, according to the latest reports from eyewitnesses. The Enough Project condemns in the strongest terms this cowardly attack by security forces against peaceful protesters demanding a civilian government in Sudan. The ruling Transitional Military Council bears the full responsibility and must be held accountable for this massacre. John Prendergast, Founding Director of the Enough Project and Co-Founder of The Sentry, said: “Sudan's Transitional Military Council is finally revealing its true identity as a continuation of the Omar al-Bashir regime through its killing of peaceful protesters.  Deposing Bashir was a deceptive move meant to defuse months of peaceful protests demanding the return of Sudan to democratic rule. "Today's violence is being perpetrated by the same army and genocidal militias -- in particular by those reincarnated as the Rapid Support Forces -- responsible over the last three decades for millions of deaths in Darfur and pre-independence South Sudan, with the aim of protecting the entrenched corrupt system still at the core of Sudan’s government.  The U.S. and European countries should impose sanctions on those responsible for the violence, and work with global banks to counter the capital flight out of Sudan of stolen assets by regime leaders and their collaborators.” Dr. Suliman Baldo, Senior Advisor at the Enough Project, said: "By breaking up sit-in camps in front of army headquarters throughout Sudan and not only in Khartoum, the Sudanese army and security forces have betrayed the trust of the Sudanese people who wanted them as partners in the democratic transformation in Sudan. Instead, by using live rounds against unarmed protesters, the security forces have opted to protect the privileges and immunities the former regime has showered on them. "The resolve of the Sudanese people to end three decades of repression and corruption will not be weakened, on the contrary, it is already fueling a rapidly spreading nation-wide civil disobedience campaign. The international community should support this legitimate struggle of the Sudanese for freedom, peace and justice." Updates and analysis by Dr. Baldo: Casualty figures are rising by the hour, standing now at 13 dead. This is expected to rise in coming hours, with those seriously wounded taken to half a dozen hospitals in the vicinity of the sit in. About THE ENOUGH PROJECTThe Enough Project supports peace and an end to mass atrocities in Africa’s deadliest conflict zones. Together with its investigative initiative The Sentry, Enough counters armed groups, violent kleptocratic regimes, and their commercial partners that are sustained and enriched by corruption, criminal activity, and the trafficking of natural resources. By helping to create consequences for the major perpetrators and facilitators of atrocities and corruption, Enough seeks to build leverage in support of peace and good governance. Enough conducts research in conflict zones, engages governments and the private sector on potential policy solutions, and mobilizes public campaigns focused on peace, human rights, and breaking the links between war and illicit profit. Learn more – and join us – at EnoughProject.org.