Cape Town — The countdown is on to the hottest production of the year - the eagerly awaited South African premiere of the multiple Tony award-winning musical Kinky Boots. Presented by Eric Abraham and The Fugard Theatre, a brand new, original production of this huge-hearted, smash-hit musical will run at The Fugard Theatre from 11 June 2019. Creating the role of shoe factory owner Charlie Price is Darren Craig, with Earl Gregory stepping in to the role of drag queen Lola. Namisa Mdlalose is Lauren, Amy Campbell is Charlie's girlfriend Nicola and Nathan Ro is Don. Inspired by true events, Kinky Boots was first brought to life on the big screen in 2005 before being transformed into a hit musical, winning six Tony and three Olivier Awards. The show features a Tony-winning score by Cyndi Lauper and a book by four-time Tony winner, Harvey Fierstein. "I'm so excited to bring Kinky Boots and its message of love and acceptance to South Africa, especially as it celebrates 25 years of Democracy. Audiences around the world have embraced the show, and I can't wait for South Africa to experience the joy that Kinky Boots brings to people!" said Cyndi. The Fugard Theatre's Kinky Boots is brought to stage by the same creative team behind local production like The Rocky Horror Show, Cabaret, Funny Girl, and West Side Story with direction by Matthew Wild, musical direction by Charl-Johan Lingenfelder and choreography by Louisa Talbot. The extravagant costumes are designed by Birrie Le Roux, the set by Paul Wills, lighting by Tim Mitchell, with sound design by Mark Malherbe. "We are honoured to be presenting the South African premiere of this Tony Award- winning, feel-good musical," said Daniel Galloway, Managing Director of The Fugard Theatre. This production has a recommended age restriction of no under 10-year olds. Kinky Boots will be performed at The Fugard Theatre from 11 June 2019 on Tuesdays to Saturdays at 20:00 with a matinee performance on Saturdays at 15:00. Sunday Matinees at 15:00 will become available from Sunday 30 June 2019. Tickets starting from R160 can be booked directly through The Fugard Theatre box office on 021 461 4554 or through The Fugard Theatre's website at www.thefugard.com. Source: Channel24