1. Don't make a habit of putting your phone on silent mode or turning it off each time you're with your partner. It makes you look like you are hiding something. 2. Save your partner's phone number using a special title like "Hubby", "Love", "Wife", "Sweetie". Or save using a title plus the official name. Using the official name only makes your partner look like just the other contacts on your phone. 3. Answer your partner's phone call with loving affectionate words like "Hi love", "Hey honey". How a conversation starts determines how it flows. If you start warm, you two will enjoy talking with each other on phone. 4. End the talk on a high. Say "I love you", say a joke, a compliment, a warm phrase before you hang up. Hang up with a smile. 5. It is OK to chat with friends online. But never chat with another person more than you chat with your partner. 6. If you will be busy, notify your partner you will not be able to pick up calls or reply texts promptly. Inform your partner what you will be doing and approximately for how long. This prepares your partner and brings peace because your partner will not feel ignored. 7. Flirting on phone is good but only flirt with your partner. 8. Tell off people who try to flirt with you, entice you and charm you on phone. Let them know that you are taken. 9. Take lots of photos and videos together to capture moments. You will need those pics and videos in future as you look back. 10. When you go out on dates, keep the phone away, minimize phone use so that you focus on each other. 11. Don't make a habit of walking away from your partner to answer phone calls. Your partner will perceive you are hiding something or having an affair. Love is about perception. 12. After the date and you don't live together; man, call her up and check on her, tell her you got home safe; lady, send him a text, thanking him for a wonderful time. 13. Unless it's an emergency, when you can't reach your partner and you probably know he/she is at work or doing something; don't keep calling and texting desperately. You will only look like a nag to your partner and that will make your partner detest phone contact with you. Relax, your partner will see your missed call and text. 14. When you see a missed call or text from your partner, please call back or reply as soon as you can. Put your partner at ease. 15. Save your partner's phone number as an emergency number to be contacted in case something happens to you and your phone is locked. 16. Avoid fights and arguments over the phone, they are difficult to manage and leave a bad feeling when you hang up, thus negatively affecting how you two relate. Talk about serious issues that are volatile face to face. 17. When your partner offends you or you two aggravate each other, never refuse to pick up your partner's phone call. That only makes matters worse. Keep the line of communication open so that you work things out. If you can't talk at the moment you are hurting, just pick up the call and say "I can't talk right now" and your partner will understand. 18. Inform your partner when and why you need to turn off your phone when you two are apart. Keep your partner from worrying. 19. When you two are having fun together, it is good to celebrate your love online but don't post too much about your love life. Some things are best kept private. The world doesn't have to know every detail of how you love each other. 20. When you two are having problems, don't vent about your partner directly or indirectly on your social media posts. 21. Don't let your partner get news about you from social media like your online friends. Tell the news to your partner first, and then post online. 22. If your partner tries calling you but your line is engaged, explain who you were talking to. If someones calls you when you're with your partner, say who it was. Transparency and clarity enhances trust. 23. Remember it is both your role to communicate. None of you should feel he/she is forcing a conversation or is doing much of the talking. Communication takes two. 24. Put away the phone when your partner needs your undivided attention, especially in the bedroom. Don't be intimate, holding your phone, more than you hold your partner. Phone use can affect your relationship/marriage negatively or positively. Be smart as you use your smart phone.