Entry for the 2019 Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) yearly film essay competition opened on Monday, June 10, 2019. Qualified and interested participants for the competition are required to forward their entries to the Corporation. Topic of the 2019 competition is Everyview, Everywhere, When Content is Key. According to the terms and conditions of the competition, participants must be Nigerian nationals and above 18 years and below 25 years of age as at December 2019. The corporation, in a statement issued in Jos, Plateau State and signed by Brian Etuk, Head of Public & Intergovernmental Affairs, said interested participants are to forward their entries in the following format -- Arial font, 14 point size, type written in double line space and should not be more than 15 pages on A4 size paper. Entries are to be submitted either in hardcopy, addressed to the Managing Director/Chief Executive, Nigerian Film Corporation, 218T Liberty Dam Road, Jos, Plateau State and clearly marked 2019 NFC Annual Film Essay Competition and or through the e-mail nfcessaycomp2019@gmail.com. The statement added that the competition has been reviewed with provisions for only first and second positions, and cash prizes of N250,000 and N100,000 respectively. This is an addition to rights of publishing the winning essays in journals as may be deemed necessary. Meanwhile, the new template of the film essay competition provides opportunities for corporate Nigeria and or individuals to sponsor the writing contest, which has grown in terms of participation and scope since its debut in 2005. NFC, Etuk said, decided to invite corporate Nigeria and individuals to throw in their weight, sponsor and take advantage of several benefits thereof, including publicity for their products and services. Prize presentation to winners of the film essay competition will be at the ZUMA Film Festival Closing Ceremony and Awards Night. Participation, sponsorship and other details on the NFC Annual Film Essay Competition is available on the corporation's website: www.nfc.gov.ng.