Mahalapye — Mahalapye residents have been urged to partake in the Olympic Day celebrations. Parwe Junior Secondary School will host one of the streamed activities of Olympic Day Celebrations on June 28. Addressing residents on Wednesday, senior teacher responsible for sports development, Oreeditse Marakakgoro appealed to them to own the event and use it to celebrate their native lifestyle. She appealed to the elderly members of the community to urge youth to appreciate the positive messages that were shared through traditional games, norms and values. Marakakgoro said the spirit of Olympism, which was being shared through the Olympic Day celebrations, challenges the community to showcase the positive values of their culture. She said the traditional games, elderly were expected to instigate positive behaviour in young people. Marakakgoro said Mahalapye though still classified as a traditional was steadily adopting modern lifestyle and therefore it would be ideal for the community to take advantage of the day and reflect on the positives of a traditional lifestyle. She observed that young people were increasingly losing touch with cultural values hence the event would provide a platform to guide accordingly. Traditional values will be shared with the youth through edutainment using traditional games, she said. Ms Marakakgoro noted that it was important for the elders to appreciate the opportunity of hosting such an event noting they should use the platform to address some of the social tormenting the village. "The event must live behind positive memories," said Ms Marakakgoro. With the preparations of the event at an advanced stage, she appreciated the support from traditional leaders such as dikgosi and the community at large. Meanwhile, Kgosi Albert Moseki of Dilaene II ward in Mahalapye applauded the committee for choosing Mahalapye to host the event. Kgosi Moseki was hopeful that the event would help cleanse the name of the village since it was associated with bad behaviour. He was hopeful that the community would take advantage of the celebrations and revive cultural practices through song and other traditional games. Sports coordinator, who is also a member of the Parents and Teachers Association (PTA), David Headman highlighted the importance of parents, teachers and community relations in making the event a success. Kgosi Duncan Segotsi also encouraged to the elderly to use the event to bring children closer to them. She said the maiden event, which would be hosted by Hatsalatladi Primary School on Friday June 21, would showcase the lifestyle of a rural and traditional settlement. From Hatsalatladi, the Olympic Day celebrations will move to Rail Park mall in Gaborone on June 23. The Mahalapye event on June 28. The Olympic Day celebrations message from the International Olympic Committee president, Thomas Bach will be presented by Botswana National Olympic Committee president, Colonel Botsang Tshenyego. Source : BOPA