Multiple award-winning Nigerian singer, Adekunle Gold has shared an emotional tribute to his late father, Prince Hakeem Adeyemi Kosoko who died on May 27, 2019, after an undisclosed illness. The late Kosoko was buried according to Islamic rites on Thursday, May 30 at the private vault of Ikoyi Cemetery and from indications, Adekunle Gold still misses his beloved father. The singer finally broke his silence about his father's death yesterday, June 9 when he shared the tribute in which he said he was not done making his dad proud before his demise. Read his post below, "I feel a great sense of loss to officially announce that after we fought so hard, my father passed on the 27th of May, 2019. My father was a GREAT man. He has always been the man I've looked up to. Growing up, I watched him work so hard for so little. He was very honest and has never been interested in shortcuts. Hard work and integrity meant everything to him. My father. I will always remember, what he said in this statement: "I've been in service far too long to let quick money ruin my reputation". This was my Father. He is forever to be remembered as a teacher. My teacher. We all know that teachers weren't big earners but my dad would ensure we always had everything we ever needed. My Dad was so loving towards me. My father often wanted me to toughen up, it's funny because he was the opposite tender and sentimental about me and my sisters. Sadly, I was not done making him proud, there are dreams I had with him in the picture, I don't know guys, I really wasn't done. I find little solace in something I read today. "God knows how to write straight on crooked lines" This area is very crooked for me, these are depths of grief that I have never dived. But God... God will figure it out. I thank you all for your prayers, your support, your kind words. None of them have gone unnoticed. I pray the love you've shown me will be accorded you in your time of need. To my Dad, the greatest man I will ever know in this life and the next, sun re o! Adieu papa. May your soul rest in perfect peace." It would be recalled that Adekunle Gold married his longtime lover and fellow singer, Simi some few months ago prior to his father's death.