Hundreds of Congolese are fleeing into Uganda because of the ongoing fighting in the Ebola- infected eastern DR Congo. The commandant of Kyangwali Refugee Camp, Ms Jolly Kebirungi, said more than 150 refugees are received every day. The clashes between Bagegere and the Lendu are forcing people in Joo, Muvarama and Njugu areas to run into Uganda for safety. They are entering Uganda through Kasenyi, Kaiso, Nsonga, and Sebagoro landing sites on Lake Albert. To prevent Ebola, Ugandan authorities have set up screening centres in Hoima and Kikuube districts. The Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) has set up reception centres at Nsonga and Sebagoro landing sites. The OPM officials are working closely with Medical Teams International, Lutheran World Federation, and United Nations High Commission for Refugees, to give support to the refugees. The Hoima District Health Officer, Dr Joseph Ruyonga, said the refugees are screened for Ebola, cholera and other hemorrhagic fevers. Ms Gorreti Mpabaisi, a nurse working with Medical Teams International at Sebagaro reception, said the refugees are briefed about the dangers of Ebola. "We give them a health talk about Ebola, Cholera and fevers. Thereafter, one by one are screened for Ebola and other fevers," she said. One of the refugees told Daily Monitor that he lost six relatives and didn't know the whereabouts of his wife. Tragedy "Our village was attacked by unidentified men who were armed with spears, arrows and some guns. They started killing people including six of my relatives, destroying houses and looting property. A few of us who survived decided to come here," said Ms Aroise Ndungute from Ituri Province, who arrived with his two children and one goat. The Buhuka Parish chairperson, Mr Original Ngamita, expressed fear for Ebola because of the continuous inflow of the refugees. The police and Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) soldiers have been deployed to monitor the arrival of refugees. After the screening, refugees are taken to a transit centre from where they wait for a bus to Kyangwali. Lutheran World Federation (LWF) has established facilities at Sebagoro Reception Centre to give water and other medical necessities to the refugees. "We also receive unaccompanied minors and refugees with special needs," says Mr Herbert Tumwebaze, a psycho-social councillor at the Sebagoro Transit Centre. UNHCR report The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is one of the most complex and challenging humanitarian situations worldwide, with multiple conflicts affecting several parts of its vast territory. The UN Refugees Agency notes that more than 826,000 DRC refugees are being hosted in African countries (as of 29 February)