Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) will host the 13 Routes Africa, an intra- Africa routes development forum 2019. Routes Conference and Exhibition is the longest -standing and established aviation forum bringing together leading Airlines, Airports, and Tourism players globally to discuss Air Services to and in Africa for over a decade. The event is scheduled to take place from 8 December 2019 in Mombasa. 2019's edition of Routes Africa will see 250 delegates come together to experience the Routes African conference program and to take part in around 600 face-to-face meetings over the course of two business days. KAA's Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Jonny Anderson said Kenya should maintain its status as trade regional hub that has made it an attractive destination. "Kenya is the regional aviation powerhouse. Our geographical location gives us an advantage in connections to most international hub cities in world. Kenya's centralized proximity to Europe, Asia, Middle East, Americas and the rest of Africa makes this a profitable aviation route. Our status as a trade and tourist regional hub also makes Kenya an attractive destination," he said. "Routes Conference and Exhibition provide an excellent platform for the aviation industry to meet and make business decisions. The forum will be an opportunity to showcase Kenya's available facilities and attractions. We are proud to host Routes Africa 2019 and look forward to welcoming delegates to magical Kenya," he added. The 2019 edition of Routes Africa will see delegates including Airlines CEO's, top-level speakers from across spheres of aviation come together to discuss the future of aviation within Africa and the most pressing issues facing the industry. During the event, ASM Global, the world's first provider of route development courses, will deliver their Route Development Accreditation course. This course, developed exclusively for Routes Africa, will provide attendees with tools and techniques to help them attract new routes and increase existing services, and all delegates attending will benefit from certification of attendance. Brand Director for routes at Kenya Airports Authority Steven Small said this will also help the organization maintain its goals towards contributing to the country's economy.