The U.S.-based democracy watchdog Freedom House says press freedom is declining around the world, right alongside political rights and civil liberties. In its annual report released Wednesday, the nongovernmental group says global press freedom declined to its lowest point in more than a decade due to continued crackdowns on independent media in authoritarian states and unprecedented threats to journalists in traditionally free societies. The reports finds press freedoms have been deteriorating across the world with "new forms of repression taking hold in open societies and authoritarian states alike." Sarah Repucci, senior director for research and analysis at Freedom House, told VOA that the report found declining press freedoms at "two ends of the spectrum." New tactics On one hand, regimes that are known to stifle the press are continuing with "very familiar tactics: arrests of journalists, threats to their safety, repressive laws, defamation laws that criminalize free speech," she said. But, on the other hand, the report found democratically elected leaders who use new tactics to "manipulate the media in ways that are very subtle that enable them to take control of the message that is getting to the population." The report assesses the degree of media freedom as either "free," "partly free" or "not free." Freedom House characterizes a free press as a media environment where coverage of political news is robust, state intrusion in media affairs in minimal, the safety of journalists is guaranteed, and the press is not subject to legal and economic pressures. The report found that a total of 16 nations designated as "free" have seen a reduction in press freedom scores during the past five years. But a disturbing trend showed that in Europe, where four out of every five countries are "free," average press freedom scores dropped 8%. Repucci, the report’s lead author, said countries such as Hungary and Serbia "dropped to 'partly free' in our freedom in the world survey and have been at the forefront of new tactics for repressing the media." Leaders in both countries "had great success in snuffing out critical journalism by consolidating media ownership in the hands of their cronies, ensuring that the outlets with the widest reach support the government and smear their perceived opponents," the report said. "But we're also seeing this in democracies around the world, in India and Israel … and also here in the United States," Repucci said, adding while the U.S. has in the past stood as the protector of free speech, that history is under threat. "The kinds of attacks that we're seeing from the Trump administration are new and are very worrying," she said. "These are verbal attacks on journalists, threats to change libel laws, threats against individual media outlets. And this is part of what appears to be a trend of undermining the respect that the government has for the role that the media is supposed to play in holding leaders to account."