Access Bank Ghana has reiterated its commitment to further deepen trade relations between Ghana and China. Trade volumes between the two countries have tripled over the last eight years, from $2.1 billion in 2010 to $6.6 billion in 2018. "Without doubt, the Ghana-China trade corridor has been the busiest and most vibrant in recent times and with the new partnership agreements such as the $2 billion Sino-hydro infrastructure agreement, we expect to see more in the coming years," Olumide Olatunji, Managing Director, Access Bank Ghana said. Speaking at a Chinese Business forum organised by the Bank in Accra, he said the bank had established a fully dedicated Chinese business desk in Ghana and was being supported by the bank's representative office in China to help businesses. The event, which attracted over 100 participants, sought to engage with its various corporate stakeholders in pursuit of becoming Africa's gateway to the world by 2022. Held on the theme, 'Broadening the gateway to the Asian business world: The Access Bank approach', the event brought together several local and foreign companies including Chinese related businesses, to deliberate on key issues that affected their businesses and trade between both countries. Mr Olatunji used the opportunity to congratulate the Asian fraternity for their contributions and successes in enhancing the country's economic growth through trade and investment. "Being Africa's largest bank by customers today, it continues to be an exciting journey serving businesses with Chinese interest within the African continent and beyond. Because of our global investment experience and our strong local industry expertise, Access Bank is able to provide the right support to close the financing gaps hampering trade activities in Ghana and the sub-region," he said. Participants at the forum commended the bank for its pacesetting efforts in facilitating trade and investment support between Ghana and China. Speaking to the media after the event, participants, representing various businesses with Chinese interest, said the forum presented the right avenue for conversations that would spur on the growth of their businesses. Secretary of the Ghana Chinese Traders and Commerce Association, Mr James Yin applauded Access Bank for its great service to Chinese traders across the country, and urged his fellow members to "take advantage of the great banking partnership Access Bank offers". On his part, Wenhai Zhang, Senior Banking Advisor - Chinese Desk, Access Bank Plc, reiterated the bank's interest in helping Chinese businesses improve, by giving them unlimited access to quick credit and trade facilities as well as flexible repayment options among many others.