Most businesses require you to have a huge starting capital and a good business plan in order to succeed. However,  forex trading business is highly profitable  but does not require any of that. The foreign exchange, popularly known as forex is a decentralized financial market for trading currencies. It is currently the world's largest and most liquid market with a daily trading volume of more than US$5 trillion. It has unique properties that make it highly lucrative both for newbies and experienced traders. It also involves low risk and high returns. So do you want to start a successful forex trading business? If yes, then today you have just clicked the right page. Below are reasons why you should start a forex trading business. 1. Flexible trading hours Forex trading business allows you to trade conveniently 24/7. This factor is very important especially if you have a busy working schedule. For instance, if you are committed to doing other tasks during the day, you can create some time during the night and trade in the forex market. Likewise, if you are not able to trade during the night, then you can set some time during the day and trade. According to  catuity , Forex business is one of the few businesses that allow you to trade 24/7. You can also trade from any location including your office, your home or even in a restaurant. All that you need is your computer or smartphone and access to the internet. With forex trading business, you don't have worry about opening or closing time as it is usually the case with other businesses. You are free to choose when to trade. 2. Anyone can start regardless of their knowledge or experience If you have tried to start a business, then you probably know how difficult it is to succeed especially if you lack knowledge and experience. However, that is not the case with forex business. Although having knowledge and experience will give you an added advantage, forex business is open to anyone. It does not require you to have special skill or experience in order to be successful. You also don't need to go through special training in order to succeed. All that is needed from you is consistency and ability to learn. You will, of course, fail one or two times but every failure will make you a better trader. 3. Small start-up capital You don't need to save for 10 years in order to start a forex business. With as little as $200, you can open your own account and start trading with  pepperstone broker . Most people have great business ideas but lack the capital to implement their great ideas. If that is the case with you then forex trading will not let you down. You can start small and grow big. When it comes to forex business, only the sky is the limit. We have all heard of stories of people who started forex business with as little $100 but managed to grow their businesses to 7 figures. You can also do it if you are smart, patient and consistent. 4. Highly profitable Forex business is one of the few businesses that can make you a millionaire overnight if you trade wisely. Statistics show that the likelihood of losing more than 10 trades in a row is very slim (less than 1%). This means that if you trade wisely, then you are likely to win your trades and earn good profits from your investment. Most people who start forex business as a side hustle have gone ahead and quit their main jobs to focus on forex trading because it is highly profitable. The key to success is to learn the forex market and make smart decisions. This includes analyzing the market correctly and knowing when to risks. 5. Ability to grow Growth is very important in human life. One thing about forex business is that it allows you to grow. You can start as a forex trader then end up as a forex manager where you get to manage other traders account and earn good commission. Once you master forex trading, you will have countless options to choose from to grow your business even further. If you are tired of being stuck in a career that has little or no space for growth, then you should start a forex business.