Former Coordinator of Intelligence Agencies Gen David Sejusa Tinyefuza has been removed from the list of 17 army generals who were approved for retirement last year and will be discharged from military service next month. In October last year, the Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) said Gen Sejusa was on the list of the officers to retire but the army spokesperson, Brig Richard Karemire yesterday said there was change of plan to have him retired. "We are a very flexible institution and change is a factor of life. When those factors come in, we respond to them accordingly," he said. The UPDF is already conducting a pre-retirement training for over 1,400 soldiers including 17 generals who are supposed to be retired in the next financial year that starts next month. Gen Sejusa has on several occasions applied for retirement since 1996 but the army has turned down his pleas to leave the military he has served for 37 years. Brig Karemire said the army will decide when to retire Gen Sejusa. "At an appropriate time, he will be honourably retired by the institution of the UPDF," Brig Karemire said. Resignation from army In 1996, Gen Sejusa announced he had resigned from the army citing harassment and intimidation by the top UPDF leadership following his testimony in Parliament about why the army had failed to end the Lord's Resistance Army atrocious insurgency in the north. He blamed the unending insurgency on the army's mistakes. He was summoned to the High Command and in anticipation of harassment over his parliamentary testimony, Gen Sejusa announced his resignation. The army rejected his resignation. He petitioned the Constitutional Court which allowed his resignation. But he lost the case when government appealed to the Supreme Court which dismissed his resignation in a majority verdict and declared that he was still a serving military officer. Later he was reintegrated into the army and appointed Coordinator of Intelligence Services until 2013 when again he fell out with the State. He authored a letter asking former Director of Internal Security Organisation Brig Ronnie Balya to investigate information that there was a plot to assassinate top government officials opposed to the "Muhoozi Project, a scheme in which President Museveni was alleged to be grooming his son Maj Gen Muhoozi Kainerugaba to succeed him as president. Gen Sejusa fled to exile in London for about two years before he returned in December 2014. He applied to the army for retirement but his application as rejected. He petitioned the High Court, saying he had been constructively retired following the withdrawal of his entitlements as a serving army officer. In 2015, the court ruled that Gen Sejusa had indeed been constructively retired from military service after the army withdrew all his entitlements as a serving General. On Monday the Chief of Defence Forces, Gen David Muhoozi addressed the second batch of soldiers, who are slated for retirement, at Gaddaffi Barracks in Jinja where he told them that earlier notification for retirement gives soldiers enough time to adjust to civilian life. The first batch of 800 is supposed to retire in July this year. In October last year, the generals listed by the UPDF for retirement this July were: Gen Sejusa, Gen Ivan Koreta (army representative in Parliament), Gen Joram Mugume (head of Ministry of Defence Land Board), Maj Gen Nathan Mugisha (Uganda's deputy ambassador to Somalia) and Maj Gen Sam Turyagyenda, former commander of Air Force. Gen Koreta, who was recently promoted to a four-star general, is among the surviving four of 28 soldiers who trained with President Museveni in 1976 in Mozambique to fight Idi Amin. Other officers to be retired are: Brig Ramadan Kyamulesire, the longest serving UPDF Chief of Legal Services; Maj Gen Timothy Sabiiti Mutebile, the Chief of UPDF Engineering and Construction; Brig Charles Angulo Wacha, the UPDF Director of Human Rights; Brig Sam Kakuru, the Deputy Chief of Personnel and Administration. Others are: Brig Mathew Ssewankambo; Maj Gen. Jimmy Wills Byarugaba; Maj Gen Sam Wasswa Mutesasira; Brig Gyagenda Kibirango; Brig Tom Tumuhairwe; Ambrose Musinguzi; Brig Mulondo and Brig John Mulindwa