Nairobi — He loves selfies, he loves Twitter and to crown it all, the United States Ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter doesn't mince his words. The top US diplomat has been known for stirring debate on social media every now and then, as he touches on Kenya's raw nerve - corruption. And he doesn't drop the either of the two hashtags: #stopthesethieves or #endcorruptionnow. Capital FM News sought to know why the Ambassador loves using his Twitter handle to agitate for change in how Kenya's public resources are utilized. Three decades ago when he was here, the ambassador said, there was no social media "but today we use social media to communicate." And for every post made on his handle, the envoy said he means it. "I don't joke on Twitter, what I say, I mean," he said. And even as he engages people on social media users, he cautioned that he doesn't respond to anyone being disrespectful to leaders. "I have limited time and when I do spend time to say something, I mean it," the Ambassador asserted. "In my responses on social media, you will never see me respond to anyone that is disrespectful of a person in Government. Because if I disrespect that elected leader, I disrespect the people that elected him, and I am not going to disrespect the citizens." For those who might reply to his tweets in a disrespectful manner, "you won't get a like on my Twitter." He committed to work "with anyone in this government" to fight corruption. He spoke shortly after launching a campaign against visa fraud at the Kenyatta University, where he said Kenya loses Sh800 billion every year to corruption. "There is a big fund available that can fix all your problems. Every year, $8 billion is stolen from this country," the envoy said firmly. "If we can just take that fund, your problems would be solved. In Kenya, there is a choice to be made." He challenged Kenya's largest population - the youth and more so university students to step up and join in the renewed war against graft, saying it is their future that is being stolen. "Do you know how much the Big Four is worth? Sh8 billion," he said. "This country has a big choice to make." Here are some of Ambassador McCarter tweets: "Kenyan leaders are praying and asking for forgiveness for the sin of thievery at the 17th annual National Prayer Breakfast. What a good start to take the nation on the path of prosperity the wananchi deserve. We must all do our part. #stopthesethieves." "Very little rest for those that are tasked with fighting thievery in Kenya. Appreciate the friendship & great job being done by DPP Noordin Haji . USA is working side by side with his team to #StopTheseThieves. We must all do our part."