Former President Jerry Rawlings has stated that China's democratic practice has proven to be far more superior saying "the Western political system has not given us the best, it has rather brought the worst out of us." He praised China for staying strong and committed to her beliefs and urged the country to remain strong for humanity and thanked the country for its continued support to Africa. Former President Rawlings urged Ambassador Wang to acquaint himself with the political developments in Ghana over the past 30 years and discern matters for himself. "Politics has become seriously monetised and affected the quality of democracy. We must contribute our efforts to contain corruption otherwise it will undermine our development efforts" former President Rawlings said. Speaking during a courtesy call on him by the Chinese Ambassador in Accra, the former president was optimistic China would grow from strength to strength to bring back balance of global bipolar authority. Former President Rawlings indicated that the United States was wary of the growing economic power of China hence its heightened trade war with the Asian giant adding that "the military behaviour of the West came as no surprise because it was obvious it was going to lose technological domination of the world. Ambassador Wang, who was paying his first courtesy call on the former President, noted that China's contribution to Africa's growth was monumental and compared it to the West which had been in Africa for centuries but had done less. "China supported the fight for Africa's political liberation and today we are supporting Africa economically through huge infrastructure development," Ambassador Wang added. The Chinese Ambassador described the trade war and targeting of Chinese technological giant, Huawei, as politically motivated. He stressed that China had been trading with the United States based on World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules which were effectively set by the United States and the spying charges against Huawei as unjustified. "It's all about Huawei taking the lead in 5G technology. They can't stop us technologically so they have to confront us administratively. We will stand up to them. China does not want war but China is not afraid of war", Ambassador Wang cautioned. Earlier, Ambassador Wang had touted China's strong relations with Ghana spanning over 60 years and commended former President Rawlings' strong role in consolidating that relationship during his tenure as president and afterwards.