Members of Parliament have increased their allowances by 39 per cent and that of parliamentary staff by 15 per cent, citing rising cost of living, this newspaper reported last week. This increment means the 459 legislators' wage bill will cost the already burdened taxpayer an additional Shs63.46b in the 2019/20 Financial Year, from the current Shs497.8b. Interestingly, the MPs also want to raise their inland and overseas travel allowances, and are demanding an additional Shs20.4b for committee oversight and bench-marking trips. MPs are among the highest paid public officials in the country, earning between Shs20m and Shs30m every month. It is also not the first time MPs have increased their pay at will. The most memorable being in 2012, when they raised their benefits by between 50 and 340 per cent. Mr Peter Ogwang (Usuk, NRM), who doubles as a parliamentary commissioner, justified the increment on the basis of over begging voters and the rising cost of living. But Ogwang should be reminded that the rest of Ugandans are shopping in the same markets, have 'begging' relatives and friends but have not received such increments. With such an example already set, what excuse will the leaders give to convince poorly paid soldiers, police officers, teachers or doctors as government prioritises infrastructure and other needing sectors? Why don't the MPs channel the Shs63.46b to improve maternity, soldiers or police officers' housing needs? Of course, the law gives legislators the legroom to determine their emoluments. For instance, Article 85 of the Constitution states that MPs are entitled to determine their emoluments, a privilege no other public officials enjoy. However, such should be done carefully and should not over burden the taxpayer. Rather than focus on pay increase, we request that MPs reflect on the work constituents sent them to do. For instance, internal reports show that many of the lawmakers are posting less-than-satisfactory performance, there is deteriorating quality of debate, low attendance of plenary and inordinate delay in handling critical reports of key government institutions as prescribed by law, among others. The ordinary people, who shoulder the hefty wages, need to see value for money through well thought-out debates and legislations, good representation and outstanding oversight roles.