President Muhammadu Buhari Saturday urged officers of the Nigeria Armed Forces to exhibit commitment to duties, loyalty and service to their fatherland in view of the time and resources invested in them. Buhari acknowledged the collaboration with neighbouring countries in the fight against Boko Haram terrorists, noting that the effort was crucial in decimating the enemy. The president gave the charge at the graduation ceremony of Senior Course 41 at the Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC) in Jaji, Zaria Saturday. At the ceremony, the president assured that the federal government would continue "to give priority to the training and welfare of officers and men of the Armed Forces, including the eminent institution established to train tactical and operational level officers on the tenets of staff work and command. "Many of the security threats faced by Nigeria are trans-border in nature. That is why the West African sub-region and indeed the African continent must step up the level of military cooperation that currently exists amongst us. "I am sure you are aware of the collaboration of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Republic of Cameroun, Niger, Benin and Chad in a multinational operation to decimate Boko Haram terrorists in the Lake Chad Basin and other regions. "The effort is laudable and has continued to yield positive results, as the war on terror is being won on all sides. I want to assure you that Nigeria, in partnership with our allies, will not relent until terrorists are completely decimated." Shehu also said the president used the occasion to appreciate the Armed Forces for what he described as their prompt responses to the numerous security challenges facing the county. "Your response to Boko Haram insurgency, banditry, militancy, kidnapping as well as activities of separatists and armed militias among others have been very commendable. "The Nigeria Armed Forces have also committed huge resources towards stability of the West African sub-region and world peace in general," he was further quoted. He said the president was glad that the prestigious college had 13 international officers from 11 African countries and the Republic of Korea, whom he said successfully completed Course 41, an improvement on Senior Course 40, which had 11 international students. Buhari commended the management for introducing media awareness packages in its training with a view to sensitising officers with the importance and methodologies of information usage as well as media actions in support of military operations. Buhari welcomed the modernisation drive in the military institution as evident in what he noted as the establishment of an e-examination centre and rejuvenated library facilities. He praised the college for reviewing its curricula to build the capacity of student officers to become more proficient in military operations meant to address Nigeria's current security threats. In his address, the Commandant AFCSC, Air Vice Marshal L.S. Alao said a total number of 207 students successfully passed through the programme which lasted for 48 weeks. Alao said the graduating set began their programme on August 8, 2018 with 87 Army officers, 58 Navy, 40 Air force personnel and nine non-military staff as well as 13 international officers drawn from South Korea, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Liberia, South Africa, Niger Republic and Gambia among others.