Cape Town — After urgent discussions with MultiChoice, Moja Love (DStv 157) has been ordered to apologise for Zodwa Wabantu's homophobic comments made on her reality show Zodwa Wabantu: Uncensored. Moja Love in a statement on Thursday said it would now be implementing steps to prevent a repeat of discriminatory content making it to air. MultiChoice on Thursday strongly condemned and distanced itself from the reality TV star and dancer Zodwa Wabantu, amidst growing calls for Zodwa Wabantu: Uncensored to be cancelled. It is important to note that, as Moja Love is an independent third-party channel, and MultiChoice Group does not exercise editorial control over their broadcast. More and more DStv subscribers and organisations have been calling for MultiChoice to cancel Zodwa Wabantu Uncensored following the entertainer's homophobic remarks in Saturday's pre-recorded episode. Calls to can the Moja Love show comes alongside a growing online petition with thousands of signatures at Change.org and complaints that have been laid with the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of South Africa (BCCSA). In a statement on Thursday Moja Love said: "We do not condone any form of discrimination through sexuality, religion, gender and culture" and that the channel from Siyaya TV accepted responsibility for the oversight that occurred in Zodwa Wabantu Uncensored. Moja Love, however, doesn't plan to suspend Zodwa Wabantu or remove the show from its schedule. "We convey our sincere and profound regret that these utterances have caused. We have placed internal measures to ensure that such an incident does not occur in the future." "Our channel talent will be given the proper tools and guidelines to enable them to understand the various dynamics that make up our society. We are currently working with LGBTQI rights organisation Iranti on remedial actions and to ensure that education around the issue is promoted." "MultiChoice strongly condemns any acts of discrimination. As such, we distance ourselves from the comments made by Zodwa Wabantu. We welcome a society where freedom of speech and diversity is celebrated, and we take a stand against discrimination in all instances. Source: The Juice