Cape Town — Just one week after its official release, John Sanei's third book, FOREsight, has reached the top of the South African bestseller lists. The futurist and trend specialist's latest offering is the top-selling book by a South African author and in fourth place overall in the country, according to Nielsen Bookscan. This comes after a nationwide tour of book launches, the last of which, at The Park in Johannesburg, was packed to capacity with over 500 people attending. FOREsight offers twenty shots of foresight to forge an abundant future beyond 2020. As the sub-header puts it: "Awaken curiosity. Cultivate wisdom. Discover the abundant future." John's first two books, What's Your Moonshot? and Magnetiize, also both reached bestseller status. While What's Your Moonshot? helped readers future-proof themselves, Magnetiize focussed on how to stop the chase and take control of your future. GQ recently dubbed John as "South Africa's most influential and connected man", while MAN magazine described him as a "national treasure". John was Africa's first Singularity faculty member, and is also a Duke University faculty member. Additionally, he was selected as one of the world's top 110 futurists, to contribute to the "Future Shock at 50" project, curated by John Schroeter of the Abundant World Institute, by sharing his perspectives on what the future holds. In the past year, Sanei has delivered keynote talks to leading corporates in South Africa, Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Dubai, Egypt, England, Hungary, Latvia, Mexico and New York. Having recently been requested to run a Foresight themed strategy session of the Western Cape Cabinet, John is one of the select few South Africans consulting to various governments around the world to help them prepare for the future. "Giving yourself the freedom to become the victor is central to my philosophy," says Sanei. "My intention with FOREsight is to help people create a future filled with optimism rather than fear." FOREsight is on the Exclusive Books Recommended Reads list for the month of June 2019. Channel24