Johannesburg — At a press lunch held in Johannesburg on Wednesday, the nominees for the 2019 Savanna Comics Choice Awards (CCAs) were announced. Media gathered alongside some of SA comedy's best, patiently waiting to find out which comedians would be in the running for a coveted Waldo statuette at this year's awards. Comedy is one of the fastest growing industries in Africa, and the CCAs is at the fore of celebrating that progression as well as the individuals whose efforts have earned such results. The most significant change in this year's competition was the move from mobile to an online voting mechanism for the Audience Choice category. Well over 100 000 votes were cast for 287 comedians from across 70 countries, highlighting that African comedy is truly a global product. The 2019 nominees list is one of the most exciting, featuring the very best comedic talent across the continent. Some of the categories include the Savanna Newcomer of the Year, Headliner of the Year and the Savanna Pan-African Comic of the Year. The awards also pays tribute to a comedy legend in the Lifetime Achievement Award. The recipient of this award will also be featured in the ceremonial "Grilling of a Lifetime" which will take place on 21 August in Johannesburg. The nominees are as follows: Comedy G Award: Chris Forrest (JHB) Loyiso Gola (JHB) Barry Hilton (CPT) Conrad Koch (CPT) Celeste Ntuli (JHB) Savanna Newcomer of the Year : Reagen Allen (CPT) Cyril Basker (DBN) Waylene Beukes (JHB) Emilio Tobias (JHB) Chomi Ya Jeso (JHB) Next Level Award: Tsitsi Chiumya (JHB) Bongani Dube (JHB) Lindy Johnson (CPT) Abuti Lolo (MPUMALANGA) Nonto R (KZN) The Native Tongue Award: Chomi Ya Jeso (JHB) Mashabela Galane (JHB) Celeste Ntuli (JHB) Siyabulela Seya (JHB) Simphiwe Shembe (KZN) The Flying Solo Award: Loyiso Gola (JHB) Skhumba Hlophe (JHB) Conrad Koch / Chester Missing (CPT) Mpho Popps Modikoane (JHB) Celeste Ntuli (JHB) The Comics' Pen Award: Lazola Gola (JHB) Kagiso Lediga (JHB) Milo (Camilo Saloojee) (JHB) Rea Moeti (JHB) Mpho Osei-Tutu (JHB) Almost News with Chester Missing (JHB) The Best Friend of Comedy Award: Goliath & Goliath (JHB) David Kau (JHB) Parkers Comedy Club/Joe Parker (JHB) Simphiwe Shembe (KZN) #ER Comedy What What ((JHB) The Headliner of the Year Award: Robby Collins (JHB) Skhumba Hlophe (JHB) Mpho "Popps" Modikoane (JHB) Siyabulela Seya (JHB) Carl Weber (CPT) The Savanna Comic of the Year Award: Robby Collins (JHB) Loyiso Gola (JHB) Skhumba Hlophe (JHB) Mpho "Popps" Modikoane (JHB) Celeste Ntuli (JHB) The Savanna Pan-African Comic of the Year: Now in its third year, this award has transcended borders and helped many comedians speak the same language - funny. Savanna Premium Cider continues to support comedy across the continent, making it even more accessible to fans. This year the nominees feature luminaries revered on the African continent and beyond. They are as follows: Kansiime Anne (Uganda) Basketmouth (Nigeria) Chingliz (Zambia) Long John the Comedian (ZIMBABWE) Alfred Kainga (ZIMBABWE) The Audience Choice Award: The voice of the fan is, and this award is for them to shout their favourite's name from the rooftops. With this being the only award that's open for public voting, the five nominees in this category will have their work cut out for them in creating a campaign that garners them maximum votes from the public to ensure their victory. The nominees are: Blaque Gzus (NORTH WEST PROVINCE) Chantal Jax (CPT) Thato Malebati (LIMPOPO) Pele-Pele (JHB) Kwanda Radebe (KZN) The Lifetime Achievement Recipient: This year's recipient of the prestigious Lifetime Achiever Award is Soli Philander. Soli Philander is a South African actor, director, comedian, playwright and columnist. A well- respected member of the comedy fraternity, the Cape Town native is no doubt a pioneer and legend deserving of this accolade through his work on TV and at theatres around the globe. The Savanna Comics Choice Awards will take place on 7 September 2019 at the Lyric Theatre, Gold Reef City in Johannesburg. Tickets are available at Computicket. Source: Supplied