ABIDJAN, Côte d'Ivoire 16 July 2019 - The African Development Bank Group on 16 July 2019, announces the debarment of Lutoyilex Construct Limited, a construction company registered in Nigeria and its Managing Director, Mr. Bamidele Obiniyi (also known as Mr. Bamidele Abayomi) for a period of 36 months. An investigation conducted by the Bank's Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption established that Lutoyilex Construct Limited engaged in fraudulent practice while bidding for a construction contract under the Agricultural Transformation Agenda Support Program Phase One in Nigeria (ATASP-1). While participating in a tender for the construction of social infrastructure in Niger State of Nigeria, the company misrepresented its experience in conducting similar construction contracts. The debarment renders the company and its Managing Director ineligible to participate in Bank-financed projects during the debarment period. The debarment qualifies for cross-debarment by other multilateral development banks under the Agreement for Mutual Recognition of Debarment Decisions, including the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank Group. ATASP-1 is financed under the African Development Fund administered by the African Development Bank Group. About the Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption The Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption of the African Development Bank Group is responsible for preventing, deterring and investigating allegations of corruption, fraud and other sanctionable practices in Bank Group-financed operations. For more information visit: https://www.afdb.org/en/about-us/organisational-structure/integrity-and-anti-corruption/ The investigation by the Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption of the African Development Bank was conducted by Ms. Esther Mhone and Mr. Justin Maenje. African Development Bank staff and the general public can use secured hotlines to report sanctionable practices within the Bank or operations financed by the Bank Group. Mail correspondence should be marked "CONFIDENTIAL" and sent to: African Development Bank Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption Immeuble du Centre de commerce International d'Abidjan CCIA Secured telephone: +1 (770) 776-5658 Secure email server: investigations@iacd-afdb.org Avenue Jean-Paul II 01 BP 1387 Abidjan 01, Côte d'Ivoire Media Contact: Amba Mpoke-Bigg, Communications and External Relations Department, African Development Bank, email: a.mpoke-bigg@afdb.org Technical Contact: Ms. Chimene Clarisse Comoe, Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption, African Development Bank Email: c.comoe@afdb.org