Cape Town — Showmax has launched a new video-on-demand service in Nigeria. Priced at N2,900 per month, the video streaming service features a dedicated slate of Nigerian TV shows and movies, international hit series, Hollywood blockbusters, and a Big Brother Naija partnership. The launch brings two important firsts - the first time a wide range of popular Nigerian series can be binged from the beginning, and a partnership with Big Brother Naija featuring live streaming of the Sunday night evictions as well as two new BBNaija shows that are exclusive to Showmax. One of the new shows will be hosted by comedians, Basketmouth and Bovi, who will provide hilarious commentary on happenings in the Big Brother Naija house. Showmax will live-stream all Sunday eviction episodes of Big Brother Naija as well as the finale, and recordings of the nomination shows will be posted on Tuesdays. In addition to this, two brand-new shows, exclusive to Showmax, have been produced. Big Brother Naija Extra View is a 25-minute compilation of unseen footage and will be added to the site daily from Tuesday to Saturday. Big Brother Naija Hot Room is a 25-minute satirical commentary on the week's central drama and action, hosted by legendary comedians Basketmouth and Bovi, with new episodes coming every Sunday evening ahead of the evictions. Big Brother Naija is just the start of the slate of Nigerian content on Showmax. HUNDREDS OF NOLLYWOOD MOVIES AND MORE The following shows will be added daily, express as they air on Africa Magic channels, with all past episodes available to binge from the beginning: Tinsel, one of Nigeria's longest-running TV series and Africa Magic Viewers Choice Best Drama 2017. The Johnsons, featuring City People Award winners Olumide Oworu and Charles Inojie. My Flatmates, starring 2018 Savanna Pan-African Comic of the Year Basketmouth. In total, the new Showmax service will feature hundreds of Nollywood movies and thousands of TV show episodes. Bollywood shows and telenovelas will also be part of the lineup, as will hits from the rest of Africa like Kenya's Supa Modo, winner of 50 international awards, and South Africa's big Africa Movie Academy Awards winner Five Fingers For Marseilles. The line-up of international shows on the new service includes Chernobyl, Vikings, Power, Game of Thrones, True Detective (starring Mahershala Ali), Insecure, Billions, Ballers, and Luther (starring Nigerian BAFTA winner Wunmi Mosaku opposite Idris Elba). There's also a major focus on kids, with favourites like Paw Patrol, PJ Masks, and Doc McStuffins. To get Showmax, visit www.showmax.com. Showmax has a risk-free trial - once signed up, cancel within the first 14 days and pay nothing. Once the 14-day free trial is over, pay only N2,900 per month. Source: Supplied