The District Chief Executive (DCE) for Bongo District in the Upper East Region, Peter Ayamga Ayinbisa, has handed over two completed health facilities to the Ghana Health Service (GHS). They are 15-bed capacity maternity block at Namoo and a Community-Based Health Planning and Services (CHIPS) compound with accommodation at Sanabiisi. Both projects were funded by the District Development Facility (DDF) at the cost of GH¢130,000 and the District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) at a cost of GH¢226,000, respectively. Performing the hand-over ceremonies on Monday, the DCE noted that the current government placed premium on health. Mr Ayinbisa said it was against this background that the Bongo District Assembly has prioritised health and that the assembly has plans to construct more of facilities to make health accessible to all communities. The DCE added the assembly would also construct a district mortuary. According to him, apart from provision of health facilities, the assembly was constructing classroom blocks, streetlights and roads adding that government has also absolved the Namoo Senior High School. "Apart from the contractor returning to the site of the Balungu-Bongo Bridge to continue the work, the Kansoe-Namoo road has also been awarded. The assembly is also working with the Ministry of Energy to ensure that the streetlight project from the Namoo community to the border town of Burkina Faso is also worked on," the DCE indicated. Mr Ayinbisi commended family heads who sacrificed their lands for the construction of government projects, saying in due course government would appreciate and recognise their sense of patriotism. He urged others to emulate their examples. The District Director of the Ghana Health Service (GHS), Stephen Bordotsiah, observed that CHPS compounds were very critical to the attainment of the Universal Access to Health Coverage and the Sustainable Development Goals. He pledged that the GHS would ensure that the facilities are taken good care of, to prolong their lifespan and further entreated communities to patronise these facilities. He advised residents to access healthcare from the facilities instead of depending on orthodox medicines.