You can only ignore the diminutive dynamo at your own risk. And after bursting into popular imagination courtesy of Starbrite Talent show in 2015, Novuyo Seagirl Dube has never looked back. Saturday night, on a glitzy night of artistic celebration, she romped the stage with verve and confidence of talent finally metamorphosising into the pop diva she has given promise of. The hit song 'AEIOU' pounded through the speakers as the backing band with musicians from journey men band Oufit , chorus line of singers from Vocal Ex and dancing choreographed by Afro-pop musician and dancers Mzoe 7. The sound system was of course, Sound Kulcha and the lighting from Events Evolution, a Harare company completed the audio-visual spectacle of Novuyo Seagirl's crowning moment as Zimbabwe's latest pop sensation. She is staking her claim alongside a growing constellation of truly gifted female stars with serious export potential. But beating 200 other contestants back in 2015 was the first cut and Novuyo sounded warning when she became the first female to win the Starbrite Talent competition drawing contestants from all around the country. It included a residential stand worth $30 000 at the time that she was yet to receive (a story for another day). She was 24 years old then. Today, she is 28 and has a couple of awards under her belt best house music award at the Star FM awards of 2018. The recent award awards are for the coveted Song of the Year for her track 'AEIOU, and Outstanding Female Artiste. Saturday night was her night to show the world what she can do and she glistened on a stage at an event which was live streamed throughout the world by one of the awards' partners CITE. Her humble beginning as a performing artist began at high school at St Columbus High in Mzilikazi township.It laid the foundation for her nascent singing career. But Novuyo has come a long way as part of a double act with her sister Nomvula who is also a singer and dancer in the Sandra Ndebele led all female ensemble 'Intombi Zomqangala'. She also passed through the famous arts institution Amakhosi. "I developed an interest in music when I went to Mozambique for a festival in 2012. My twin sister who was a lead singer lost her voice and no one else could sing a song called Uyakhumbula. I had to sing and people loved my voice and started encouraging me to take up singing and I've never looked back," said Dube in an interview with local media. Last year, Novuyo collaborated with producer Lance Hebron on the now famous song and the rest is history. The song has launched her career and she has since released 'Bambelela' as a follow up track. The song however evolved as a kind of experiment between lectures at the College of Creative Art Africa a Midlands State University affiliated institution in Bulawayo last year. She is studying for a diploma in music production and sound engineering.