Cape Town — On Wednesday, Spotify announced that it's partnered with Disney to launch a Disney Hub on its platform. Spotify listeners in South Africa, the U.S., U.K., Ireland, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand can search "Disney" on Spotify to find a designated hub for the music behind some of their favourite Disney movies and TV shows. Users will be able to stream playlists full of everything from The Little Mermaid to modern favourites like Frozen, to Star Wars instrumentals, and even Marvel movie soundtracks. The Hub will include playlists for Disney fans of all ages, including: Disney Hits: Disney Hits to hear the top songs from the most prominent Disney and Pixar films. Disney Favorites: Like Disney Hits, Disney Favorites will have everyone's favourite current tunes, plus the ones you loved when you were a child. (You've still got a friend in me.) Disney Classics: Kick back with Disney Classics, a nostalgic playlist that includes songs from the Disney Parks, live-action and animated classic soundtracks, and songs from Disney Channel originals. Disney Sing-alongs: From the shower to the car, Disney songs that you can't help but sing along to. Disney Princess: From Belle to Cinderella to Ariel to Moana, Disney Princess has the love ballads as well as the coming-of-age breakaways. Marvel Music: All the best songs and scores from all your favourite Marvel films and shows. Best of Star Wars: Enter, Darth Vader. Here are the top 10 most-streamed Disney songs on Spotify (all currently featured in Disney Hits): Let It Go - Idina Menzel (from Frozen) How Far I'll Go - Auli'i Cravalho (from Moana) You're Welcome - Dwayne Johnson (from Moana) Life is a Highway - Rascal Flatts (from Cars) You'll Be In My Heart - Phil Collins (from Tarzan) Do You Want to Build a Snowman? - Agatha Lee Monn, Katie Lopez, Kristen Bell (from Frozen) I'll Make a Man Out of You - Chorus - Mulan, Donny Osmond (from Mulan) A Whole New World - Alan Menken, Brad Kane, Lea Salonga, Tim Rice - (from Aladdin) Try Everything - Shakira (from Zootopia)Love Is an Open Door - Kristen Bell, Santino Fontana (from Frozen) Most repeated Disney songs: A Whole New World (End Title) - ZAYN, Zhavia Ward (from Aladdin) Speechless - Naomi Scott (from Aladdin) A Whole New World - Alan Menken, Brad Kane, Lea Salonga, Tim Rice (from Aladdin) Let It Go - Idina Menzel (from Frozen) Under the Sea - Samuel E. Wright (from The Little Mermaid / Soundtrack Version) Part of Your World - Jodi Benson - (from The Little Mermaid / Soundtrack Version) You've Got a Friend in Me - Randy Newman (from Toy Story/Soundtrack Version) I See the Light - Alan Menken, Glenn Slater, Mandy Moore, Zachary Levi (from Tangled/ Soundtrack Version) I Just Can't Wait to Be King - Jason Weaver, Rowan Atkinson, Laura Williams (from "The Lion King/Soundtrack Version) Can You Feel the Love Tonight - Joseph Williams, Sally Dworsky, Nathan Lane, Ernie Sabella, Kristle Edwards (from The Lion King/Soundtrack Version) Source: Supplied