Nairobi — Operators under taxing-hailing service provider - Little Cab - are set to receive new mobile handsets at an affordable rate following the signing of a financing agreement that will allow drivers acquire smartphones on credit. This follows a partnership between the taxi-hailing firm and Pioneer Credit, a local financial services provider, which will see taxi drivers have access to better quality mobile phones. The plan dubbed "Pata Simu Lipa Mdogo Mdogo" will enable drivers' access top quality phones through a simple 3-minute application process. The platform will provide drivers with 5 different models of phones ranging between Sh10,000 to Sh20,000. Speaking during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on Monday, Little Cab Managing Director Alex Mwaura said drivers can now work efficiently while conducting their day to day business. "This is indeed a wonderful day for Little Cab drivers as they will have access to better mobile phones that will enable them to improve on their service delivery," he said. The credit facility will enable Little Cab drivers to apply for the loan through a short code *454#. The drivers will then be required to verify their details before they select one out of five different models of mobile handsets. Once this process is done the drivers will be directed to an outlet to pick their handset in a matter of hours. The drivers will be able to pay for their phone via a daily or weekly charge for a period of three months. Pioneer Credit Executive Chairman Evans Nyagah said the company aims to grow this product and expand to various regions within the county and potentially to the different Taxi companies that operate here in Kenya. "We are very confident that this product will benefit the taxi drivers. This will enable all drivers across all taxi platforms to have access to good quality phones that enable them to better carry out their businesses," Nyagah remarked. Through Kenya Orient protective measures have been put in place to ensure that the handsets are insured from theft or damage. This will also ensure business continuity for the drivers as the insurance cover will ensure that the cab drivers conduct their business unhindered.