Johannesburg — HUAWEI is to invest US$2 billion within the next five years to enhance software engineering capabilities towards tackling cyber security and privacy challenges. The Chinese-based company disclosed the investment in its 2018 Sustainability Report published last week. It is the 11th such publication. Huawei stated a fully connected, intelligent world was built upon security and trustworthiness hence it made cyber security and privacy protection its top priorities. Meanwhile, the 2018 report explains Huawei's four strategies for sustainability: digital inclusion, security and trustworthiness, environmental protection as well as a healthy and harmonious ecosystem. Over the past year, Huawei has been working to help achieve the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), built a sustainable and more inclusive ecosystem with its industry partners, and execute its own sustainability strategies. Liang Hua, Chairman of Huawei, said, the company had created value for its customers through innovation. "We are doing everything we can to bridge the digital divide and meet the world's needs for connectivity," Hua stated. "We want to make digital services more affordable and equally accessible to all, and to do our part in contributing to social and economic development." Hua explained that environmental protection was also a key component of Huawei's sustainable development initiatives. He said efficiency has become a major consideration for future communications networks. "We have to use less energy to transmit more data, and reduce the overall energy consumption of power systems. ICT technologies can help," Hua added. Huawei has made some innovations in the course of its 5G research, product development and engineering. It has managed to reduce the power consumption per 5G site to 20 percent less than the industry average. Kevin Tao, Board Member and Chairman of Sustainable Development Committee of Huawei, remarked the company aimed to bring the benefits of digital technology throughout. "To this end, we have launched a global digital inclusion initiative called TECH4ALL. For example, our RuralStar solution has connected 40 million rural residents as of the end of 2018," Tao added.