Welcoming Manuel Domingos Augusto's visit to China as President Joao Lourenco's special envoy, Wang Yi expressed that Angola is China's strategic partner with an important position in China's diplomacy towards Africa. Last year, President Xi Jinping had two meetings with President Joao Lourenco, during which they reached important consensuses on China-Angola relations and bilateral cooperation. The Chinese side is willing to, together with the Angolan side, follow through these important consensuses, intensify high-level exchanges, enhance strategic coordination, make good use of the two major platforms, namely the Belt and Road Initiative and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, and propel practical cooperation in various fields. The Chinese side appreciates Angola for supporting the Chinese candidate's election as Director-General of the World Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and upholding justice in issues related to Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The Chinese side is willing to continue to understand and respect each other's core interests and major concerns with the Angolan side. The Chinese side will keep encouraging Chinese enterprises and financial institutions to cooperate with the Angolan side in line with the principle of mutual benefit and win-win results and provide support and assistance for Angola's development within China's capacity to help Angola realize its strategy of economic diversification. Manuel Domingos Augusto said, Angola places great importance on developing its relations with China. Angola-China friendship is like a huge tree which keeps growing, blossoms and bears fruits. Angola thanks the Chinese side's long-term support and help for Angola's development and construction. The Angolan side stands ready to work with the Chinese side to further strengthen exchanges at all levels, deepen practical cooperation and continuously support each other on major issues of respective concerns. Angola congratulates on the Chinese candidate's successful election as FAO Director-General. It is another manifestation of the splendid achievements of China's diplomacy. It is hoped and believed that the Chinese side will play an even bigger role in international affairs and further safeguard the interests of Africa and the vast number of developing countries. Both sides also exchanged views on specific issues in bilateral cooperation.