Gaborone — The 2019 Miss Botswana pageant auditions did not attract many young hopefuls. The pageant's crew, which has travelled to Palapye, Maun, Selebi Phikwe, Francistown and Ghanzi before the final lap in Gaborone over the weekend, managed to select 11 participants out of the 30, who had shown interest. Botswana Council of Women representative, Tamati Ramatlhakwane said the number of girls, who showed up, was disappointing. She said most of the girls were disqualified by height. She further higlighted that most Miss Botswana aspirants, usually audition in large numbers in Gaborone. That, she said could be attributed to the fact that most of them were in Gaborone for tertiary studies. Meanwhile, entries for Miss Botswana closed on Sunday with auditions in Gaborone. With just a few months to Miss World pageant to be held United Kingdom in December, Ramatlhakwane indicated that preparations for the Miss Botswana edition were at advanced stage. Although the event was planned for this August 17, she said they had postponed to a later date as they were still closing in on some negotiations with various sponsors. She said they had engaged local fashion designers for the fashion show, which would be staged soon. Initially, the fashion show was to be held on July 27. She expressed hope that the winner would be committed since she would have little time to prepare for the Miss World pageant. She noted that the bulk of work for the queen to present at Miss World was the Beauty With a Purpose project. Meanwhile, one of the crown contenders, Gofa Nkoane said she hopes to undertake a 'Virginity Is Cool' project if she was to win. According to Nkoane, she said beauty with a purpose means building communities adding that some ways of uplifting communities were to reduce the HIV prevalence in Botswana especially among the youth and do projects, which could reduce unemployment and poverty. The 20-year-old Nkoane said as an aspiring actor, she hopes to use the pageant to build and shape her career in the showbiz industry. Source : BOPA