Dakar, Senegal - July 19, 2019: A joint workshop on Programme Monitoring and Evaluation of Country Programmes held in Dakar, Senegal from 8 to 17 July 2017. The two workshops, organized back-to-back for Francophone and Anglophone participants brought together UNFPA Country Monitoring & Evaluation staff for Africa from West and Center. At the closing of the workshop, Osaretin Adonri, Assistant Representative of UNFPA Nigeria, on behalf of the English-speaking participants expressed gratitude for the opportunity to discuss and exchange on critical issues around programme monitoring and evaluation.  "The workshop allowed us to discuss openly all the difficulties related to the practice of monitoring and evaluation in the countries." He said, adding the need to blend in communication to better explain and sensitize staff in monitoring and evaluating project and programme impact for the Organization." Held in two phases, the first for French-speaking participants took place from 8 to 10 July, while the second for English-speaking participants from 15 to 17 July 2019. The workshops were aimed at, among other things, to familiarize the staff with monitoring and evaluation of country offices, as well as with UNFPA policy and evaluation methodologies. The workshops provided the opportunity for fruitful exchanges and sharing of experiences between countries. They also allowed participants to revisit major issues and challenges preventing countries from best quality evaluations. Regional Technical Advisor for Monitoring and Evaluation of the West and Central Africa Regional Office, Simon-Pierre Tegang, who was the organizer of this joint training, was pleased with the outcomes of the training. He noted the need to remain consistent in training and capacity building, including drawing from expertise within the various countries and across the region. Participants at the two workshops were country office monitoring and evaluation staff or program managers from 21 countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Sao Tome & Principe, Senegal, Central African Republic, Sierra Leone, Chad, Togo).