Gaborone — President, Dr Mokgweetsi Masisi has expressed gratitude for the quality of hospitality extended to the Botswana delegation during the just ended state visit to Kenya. "There is no official or minister of the Botswana government who did not comment commendably on the hospitality services and the quality in Kenya. They are good and sadly in private we are bemoaning our lack of quality service. So, please help us and help the hospitality industry to improve on what it does," he said. Addressing the media in Gaborone following the visit, which was at the invitation of Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta, the President said Botswana would therefore be engaging Kenya deeply on tourism. Dr Masisi revealed that he had extended an invitation to President Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta to visit Botswana after the general elections. Meanwhile President Masisi has applauded ministers and senior government officials who were part of the state visit delegation for earning the respect of Kenyans. President Masisi said Kenyans declared publicly that they were mightily impressed at the resolve, strength, commitment and the tactfulness of the Botswana delegation. According to Dr Masisi, the visit, which was meant to solidify the long standing bilateral relations between Botswana and Kenya, was a success as it culminated in the signing of MoUs on double taxation avoidance, bilateral air service and ICT cooperation. Elaborating on the signed bilateral air service agreement, Transport and Communication minister, Ms Dorcas Makgato said it was a tool setting the basis for negotiations that would be of help to Air Botswana and Kenya Airways. Ms Makgato explained that Air Botswana's readiness would be facilitated by the signing of the agreement adding that Kenya Airways was committed to start services relatively soon. "Even besides these agreements that we signed, we are already cooperating with Kenya Airways at training and maintenance level, because the jet equipment that we bought, is similar to theirs. So, already as it is, we are working with them," she added. Regarding the ICT agreement, she said it would afford Botswana an opportunity to learn from Kenya which was advanced in the sector. Explaining why Botswana had not yet ratified the African Continental Free Agreement (AFCTA), Investment, Trade and Industry Minister, Ms Bogolo Kenewendo said her ministry was still going through internal processes to conclude outstanding issues. "We went to a ministers of trade meeting last month where some of the issues that we still felt needed to be concluded, especially those on the sensitive side. And one of our concerns was that it appeared there were few member states that were looking to re-open the negotiations and once that is done it will mean we are being taken back. But we are hopeful that with all the negotiations that we are doing, we will seal the agreement and following that we will ratify," she stated. On another AFCTA related issue, the Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA), Ms Kenewendo said the ministry had started the process towards ratification "and we have exchanged offers and have come to an agreement and we will be working on ratification. "We have reached a landmark agreement between Southern African Customs Union and the East African Community- opening new markets to the member states of these regional groups," said the minister. Ms Kenewendo said an agreement was signed in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia last month which had resulted in member states pledging to urgently work on its implementation which would then become a basis for TFTA and ultimately for AFCTA. President Masisi was accompanied by First Lady Neo Masisi and ministers of International Affairs and Cooperation Dr Unity Dow, Environment, Natural Resources Conservation and Tourism Mr Kitso Mokaila, Defence, Justice and Security Mr Shaw Kgathi, Inestment, Trade and Industry Bogolo Kenewendo, Agriculture and Food Security Mr Fidelis Molao, Presidential Affairs, Governance and Public Administration assistant minister Mr Machana Shamukuni as well as Kanye South MP, Mr Abram Kesupile, Ghanzi South MP Mr Christian De Graaff and Customary Court of Appeal (South) president Kgosi Mothibe Linchwe. Source: BOPA