Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi has promised more developmental projects to all parts of the state on the basis of equity and fairness. Mr Bello stated this in Dekina while flagging off the reconstruction of the 25-kilometre Dekina-Ayingba road which was first constructed in 1961. The governor, who is seeking reelection, said his administration decided to reconstruct the road as part of efforts to improve the living standard of the people. Mr Bello said the project, awarded to TEC Engineering Construction Company, would be completed in nine months. He said its reconstruction would bring to an end many years of suffering by commuters. The governor, who paid a courtesy call on the Ejeh of Dekina, Usman Obaje, said work on the road would not suffer any unnecessary delay. He also promised the road leading to the Ejeh's palace, which, he noted, was in deplorable condition, would equally be rehabilitated by the government. In his response, the traditional ruler thanked the governor for awarding the contract for the reconstruction of the road which, he said, was first constructed in 1961. He pleaded with the governor not to abandon the project like the previous administrations, explaining that its completion would enhance the socio-economic life of the people of the area. The governor also flagged off the Anyigba-Egume bypass road. Mr Bello, who later had a stop-over at Ayingba to inaugurate the newly-built Igala Unity House, urged all Igala sons and daughters to see the new project as a rallying point. While commending them for their sense of communal effort, the governor said the house was the beginning of new things in the area. Also speaking, the Chief of Staff to the governor, Edward Onoja, described the new house as a symbol of unity among the Igala race. He expressed gratitude to the governor for his love for the Igala people and for making a personal donation of N50 million towards the completion of the project. Mr Onoja also thanked members of the state executive council and the state lawmakers for the support received from them while the project was under construction.