Nairobi — 'Believe in yourself and there will come a day when others will have no choice but to believe with you.' This is probably one of the most notable quotes by Mufasa, one of the leading characters in the just premiered Walt Disney movie, 'Lion King'. The remake of the 1991 movie has taken the world by storm with leading movie critics terming it as one of the most epic animated movies by Disney. The star-studded photorealistic movie includes voices by Donald Glover, Beyonce Knowles-Carter, Chiwetel Ejiofor and Seth Rogen among others. This has given the country's tourism watchdog a reason to smile about. Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) said it supported Walt Disney's film crew towards a partnership that showcased Kenya as the inspiration of the of the movie as well as supporting premieres both locally and internationally. The movie, which has been unveiled to audiences in USA, France and UK, showcases the diverse tourism products Kenya has to offer. Speaking during the exclusive VIP movie premiere, Information and Communication Technology Cabinet Secretary, Joe Mucheru said the movie showcases the diverse tourism products Kenya has to offer. "The movie shows the kind of tourism opportunities that we have; We have hotels, lodges, people and food. And this means a lot for us as the industry continues to expand. Kenya also has high quality movie theatres. It is an opportunity for local movies to also come up," he said. KTB Chief Executive Officer, Betty Radier said the movie will raise the country's profile and amplify its brand equity, especially with the media campaigns to promote Kenya. She also revealed that within the first four weeks, the movie's first trailer had attracted 60 million viewers through Disney's digital channels which have millions of followers. "As a leading tourist destination, Kenya is known globally as the home of safari. Our country is also endowed with diverse tourism products which gives visitors an array of options- ranging from culture to wellness, she added. KTB Chairman, Jimi Kariuki said the movie has endorsed the country as a filming destination. "So far, close to 80 international movies have been shot in Kenya. These include Out of Africa, King Solomon's Mines, Born Free, The White Mischief, Walk with Lions and Kitchen Toto," he said. Twenty-Five years ago, Walt Disney Company produced the Lion King Movie- Hakuna Matata Edition. The mantra, Hakuna Matata' implies Kenya is a land where there are no worries. In 1991, almost three decades ago, the film's team of animators conducted extensive research in Kenya, studying the landscape and behaviour patterns of animals that would later inspire the greatest movie of all time. Kenya is a Magical land with boundless experiences, and the film is inspired by Kenya and its unique landscape, especially in the Rift Valley. The film stars the voices of Donald Glover, Seth Rogen, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Alfre Woodard, Billy Eichner, John Kani, John Oliver, Beyonce Knowles-Carter and James Earl Jones (re-enacting his original role as Mufasa).