It is a feature that users have been requesting for months, and now Twitter has yielded and now you can finally add photos, videos and GIFs to your retweets. Twitter on Monday said they had added support for retweeting a tweet by adding an image, video, or GIF. Evidence of this feature was first discovered back in February, but now it is being rolled out to all users after what Twitter said was a long, nuanced design and engineering process. In a tweet announcing the new feature, Twitter said: "It's easy to express yourself by Retweeting with a comment. Exciting news: Today we are launching the ability to Retweet with GIF, photos, and video! We find solutions to many challenges as we build for a global, vocal audience. Here is a glimpse into our process as we worked on this feature. https://t.co/PUMr9DRQ0K - Twitter Engineering (@TwitterEng) May 6, 2019 "What if you could take it a step further and include media? Starting today, you can! "Retweet with photos, a GIF, or a video to really make your reaction pop." "The most exciting part of this project was that we were working on a feature that many people asked for," wrote the Twitter Engineering account, in an update today. "We're very excited to launch this feature across Twitter, and we can't wait to see it being used by all of you." It's easy to express yourself by Retweeting with a comment. What if you could take it a step further and include media? Starting today, you can! Retweet with photos, a GIF, or a video to really make your reaction pop. Available on iOS, Android, and https://t.co/AzMLIfU3jB. pic.twitter.com/Oir5Hpkb2F - Twitter Support (@TwitterSupport) May 6, 2019 The company said the updates to the Retweet feature required teamwork and collaboration across multiple teams, as the changes impacted things like the tweet detail page, timelines, accessibility features and parity across Twitter clients. The new feature is available now on iOS, Android and the Twitter mobile site. Here's how to add photos, videos and GIFs to your retweets: Tap the retweet icon on the tweet that you want to retweet Tap 'Retweet with comment' As well as being able to add a comment to a retweet, you'll now also see the GIF and image icons - tap on these to add multimedia to your retweet. If you find that the new options aren't available on your app, make sure you're using the latest version of Twitter. You can also try closing the app and re-opening it, which should make the new feature available to you.