Uganda National Oil Company Director General CEO Dr. Josephine Wapakabulo address participants during the 5th East Africa oil and Gas summit and Exhibition held at the Intercontinental Hotel in Nairobi Kenya on the 21 June 2018. Politics, intrigue cited in her resignation Nearly three years in her job, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Uganda National Oil Company, Dr Josephine Wapakabulo has resigned. In her resignation letter dated May 13, 2019, addressed to the Chairperson Board of Directors of the Uganda National Oil Company (UNOC), Emmanuel Katongole, Wapakabulo cites family and new opportunities as reasons for her resignation. "This is my resignation from the position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Uganda National Oil Company with effect from August, 13, 2019," her resignation letter reads in part. Chairman, it has been an honour and a privilege to work with you, the Board and staff of UNOC as we set-up and established UNOC to handle the State's commercial interests in the Oil and Gas sector. However, time has come for me to focus on my family and new opportunities," Wapakabulo's resignation letter reads in part. However, insiders attribute her resignation to politics and intrigue at work. In a staff email on the contrary, Wapakabulo further hinted on health as a cause of her resignation. She was recruited as the first CEO of the Uganda National Oil Company in August, 2016. In her resignation letter, she described UNOC staff as dedicated to serve the country, hardworking, smart and skilled Ugandans. "I'm confident that under the continued guidance of the Board, UNOC will grow from strength to strength and successfully deliver its mandate to the people of Uganda," she wrote. Wapakhabulo is a daughter of the Late Speaker of Parliament and seasoned politician, James Wapakhabulo. "I express my sincere gratitude to His Excellency President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni for his leadership and stewardship of our oil and gas sector. I also thank our Shareholder Ministers, Hon. Eng. Irene Muloni and Hon. Matia Kasaija, you and the Board for all the support and guidance you have given me during my time as CEO and for this opportunity to serve my country," she wrote. By Edward Ssekika Edited by Flavia Nalubega Edited by Didas Muhumuza