Though students of Accra Technical University (ATU) have enrolled solely to pursue academic programmes, they are, on the contrary, endowed with varied talents, and hold fast to a common purpose, to sing to the glory of God. The students found time out of their busy academic schedules to rehearse songs from different composers, in varied languages, and to sing with all their hearts and minds. Indeed, the songs they sang , made a perfect blend into lovely melodious tunes, capable to move the most hardened hearts and eventually consoled hearts that had been tormented. The ATU Choir stands out very tall at every gathering to display their uniqueness and normally leave many astounded. Leaving up to their pedigree , the choir was able to electrify the school's auditorium which was packed to capacity for the official launch of A TU's 70th anniversary celebration. A few of the songs they had rendered at the function included, "To God be the glory," " Praise Him, " " Se biribi papabi wo aseda kyea," among others. Some of the spectators who could not control their emotions joined in singing the melodious songs, an expression of exceeding joy in their hearts. The students who had endeared themselves to the gathering, were enthralled that they had succeeded in making the gathering glad. Ms Juliet Esinam Nutakor, a chorister said she loved singing and was highly elated to be a member of the choir. Ms Francisca Ama Atiglinyi, another chorister, said she was delighted to be part of the team. Mr Paul Mettle, the Music Director of the choir, said rehearsals were held once every week and that he was happy about alacrity with which students approached the time allotted for rehearsals. He was optimistic that the choir would go places provided students maintained the same level of enthusiasm and their love for music. It would be recalled that at the university's recent congregation, the choir was at its best since it was able to keep some of the students glued to their seats minutes after the programme, to enjoy the music, while others joined in dancing to the interesting tunes.