Mr Philip Munyao, a water vendor who attended Wednesday's Labour Day celebrations at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, is an unhappy man. Like many other Kenyans, he had high expectations. They wanted an increment on their salaries, job opportunities and a reduction of taxes to make food affordable, but the event was more of a political charade. To Kenyans, Labour Day is the day the government announces changes to relevant bits of legislation -- most notably revisions to the statutory minimum or general wage for formal sector employees. Not even Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) secretary-general Francis Atwoli's attempts to entice workers with promises of "good news" that Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani was bearing as he implored Mr Munyao's and many other Kenyans' patience. "Just like the sky is cloudless this morning with no sign of rain, I expected nothing good from today's Labour Day celebrations," Mr Munyao said. Although he followed the event, his assertions capture the general mood of Kenyans who felt that the occasion was a far cry from its origins as a day to celebrate the labour movement. GRAFT It was supposed to be a day when Kenya's workers, in celebration of their efforts and achievements, were reminded of the critical role they play in nation-building. But for minimum and low-wage earners like Mr Munyao, the unhelpful timing of this confluence of wage pressures has other undesirable effects. "Relying exclusively on single incomes has become impossible, forcing us to seek supplementary incomes or rely on handouts. But workers' union representatives come here, dance and politic without addressing our issues with the seriousness they deserve," said another Kenyan, Mr Justus Muchene, a worker at Industrial Area. However, Mr Yattani said negotiations on salary increments are ongoing and that an announcement would soon be made. Mr Atwoli, who has over the years led the celebrations, began his speech with the support the government's war on corruption urgently needs and why Kenya must protect its international boundaries. HOUSING LEVY And being known as a man not to walk on eggshells in his public addresses, Wednesday was no different for the Cotu boss when he ruffled feathers of employers and the political class. Conspicuously missing at the event was Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) chief executive officer Jackline Mugo. Her unusual absence lifted the lid on the fight with Cotu over the housing levy fund. FKE on Tuesday rejected the pay rise deal Cotu had reportedly struck with the government as a precondition to supporting the housing levy fund. "Ahead of Labour Day, an annual wage increment is not feasible. Employers are ever so burdened with escalating costs, leading to either closing operations or downsizing the workforce. The government and Kenyans should be concerned with the high and escalating levels of unemployment," FKE president Mark Obuya said. POLITICS Many of the Kenyans the Nation spoke to felt Mr Atwoli focused on his off-cuff remarks at the expense of workers wages. Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara accused Mr Atwoli of turning the workers body into a political outfit. Speaking at a Naivasha hotel on Wednesday, she particularly took issue with the Labour Day celebrations which she claimed were turned into a political circus. More than 50 MPs attended the Uhuru Park event where Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula were present. Additional reporting by Macharia Mwangi