Travel Indaba ignites growth potential for NW Tourism the North West Department of Tourism is expecting an influx of tourists into the province from local and abroad after a successful participation at the 2019 Africa Travel Indaba. The Indaba brought together various tourism stakeholders recently at Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre (ICC) to network and do business. The North West Tourism Board Acting Chief Marketing Officer, Mpho Motshegwa says the premium travel trade show is an important space to market the province given the level of exposure to buyers and sellers from all walks of life. "The Indaba is a great platform for us to carry our mandate of creating market access for our products and to promote the North West as destination of choice. We have seen over a hundred local and international buyers. "The magnitude of the Indaba has proven to be a great platform because it feeds into the vision that we have and resonates with what we as a board ultimately want to achieve, this year's show has indeed been great for us as a province", said Motshegwa. The Department took over 20 emerging product owners, who engaged in speed marketing sessions which exposed them to buyers from travel and tourism industry to benchmark on practices to better market the province. According to the Head of Department Adv Neo Sephoti trying to achieve the province's success has been a collective effort. "Throughout the duration of the Indaba we have had our product owners across the tourism landscape hard at work and promoting the best of what we have as a destination. "As a department we would like to thank all our stakeholders who continue to work together with us and support because we have good products to market and our success at the department is because of continued collaboration with everyone in the industry from the emerging businesses, the bigger businesses, our communities and government at large", said Adv Sephoti. Africa's Travel Indaba is one of the largest marketing events on the African calendar, and one of the top three "must visit" events of its kind on the global calendar. Being an established tourism spectacle, it showcases the widest variety of African best tourism products and attracts international buyers and media from across the world. It brings together a showcase of Southern African tourism products and services for the international travel trade and offers travel buyers an unrivaled platform to do one-on-one business with the cream of the African leisure tourism industry players. Issued by: North West Tourism