Jwaneng — Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) employees have been applauded for effectively delivering four general elections in a transparent and credible manner since 1999. This was said by the IEC commissioner, Ms Shaboyo Motsamai at the organisation's 2018/2019 excellence awards ceremony held in Jwaneng. She said their collective commitment and hard work had paid off through those who excelled and subsequently awarded. "As we individually celebrate our achievements let us not forget that the contributions of those who are not here or are not receiving awards are not in any way inadequate. The success of one is victory for all," she said. She further noted that even though this year general election was the most demanding, she was optimistic that the IEC employees would give it their all as they had already done since the beginning of the electoral cycle in September last year. She said their commitment in their duties had immensely contributed to making Botswana a key enhancer of democracy in Africa and the world in general. Subsequently, Ms Motsamai noted that the employees had to be acknowledged and rewarded as a way of motivating them to continue with the good work. "Awards are a way of encouraging good behaviour and inspire a spirit of competitiveness, but competitiveness should not be mistaken for infighting and all other bad behaviour that will bring the organisation into disrepute. In whatever you do, let team spirit lead," she said. The IEC secretary, Ms Auntie Zuze called on employees to come up with innovative ways that could be used to continue delivering credible elections. She said the awards ceremony came at the busiest period, with only a few months to the general election. She therefore urged them to work hard towards delivering on the organisation's mandate. "The IEC strives to support the employees because they are key in attaining the mandate of the organisation. We are doing everything to deliver a credible and transparent election, hence the theme calls for innovative ways to attain that," she explained. She also said the IEC would continue to acknowledge and reward excellence, while at the same time working on improving the awards ceremony. For her part, Ms Oarabile Maroba, who emerged Employee of the Year, commended the IEC leadership for acknowledging good performance to motivate employees. She also lauded her colleagues for the good team spirit that contributed to her achievement. <i>Source : BOPA</i>