Nairobi — UNICEF and Safaricom have launched the Internet of Good Things in Kenya - a set of information and resources which promotes living better and healthier. Internet of Good Things is a UNICEF-led initiative, currently accessible in over 60 countries and territories around the world, and helping to bridge the digital divide and build knowledge societies. Internet of Good Things as a platform hosts mobile-packaged content from UNICEF and its partners, designed to make life-saving and life-improving information available at no cost - even on low-end devices, and basic web-enabled mobile phones. By providing greater access to information and tools to provide feedback, Internet of Good Things also allows youth and citizens to take part in critical discussions and voice their opinions. In Kenya, Internet of Good Things is made accessible free of data charges by Safaricom, at https://ke.goodinternet.org/. To use Internet of Good Things Kenya without data charges, users should access the site with a Safaricom SIM card. Browsing the site will not deduct airtime from their balance. Internet of Good Things is bringing change in awareness and knowledge to critical areas, and continues to aim in assisting bringing change in attitudes and behaviours as a result of new knowledge. The initiative is also helping to bridge the digital divide and increase access to critical information. Many communities and individuals across Kenya do not have ways to easily, or without charge, access life-saving information. Adolescents, especially girls, are vulnerable to malnutrition, child marriage, female genital mutilation, physical, sexual and gender-based violence, poor access to health information, early and unintended pregnancy, HIV and AIDS and more. Without access to critical information, these challenges and vulnerabilities can continue to compound. Through Internet of Good Things, access is provided to skills building, positive knowledge, emergency information, and anyone can be empowered to make more informed decisions around health, ending violence, environment protection, career advice and many other areas.