Nairobi — Embu County government has secured Habitat Inter trade export market valued at Sh1.2billion annually that will boost farming and trading of horticultural products from the county. The new venture came as a combined effort between Embu County Department of Agriculture and Habitat Intertrade company known to deal with farming and trading of horticultural products nationally. The county recently held a youth Agri business summit and expo hosted in February 2019 that engaged youth in agribusiness through linkages with markets and financial support just after launching the Embu County Youth in Agribusiness Strategy 2019-2023. It has now embarked on making strategic partnerships to aid in the implementation of the strategy. Embu County Governor Martin Nyaga Wambora said the partnership with Habitat Inter Trade will support farming and trading of horticultural products from the county. "Embu county is endowed with rich soils and adequate rainfall. We are looking forward to the expanded market. I urge the youth to take advantage of this opportunity and reap the benefits. This will go a long way in the creation of jobs and ensure food security under the Big 4 Agenda set by President Uhuru Kenyatta", the governor said. He further noted that Habitat Inter Trade will get into farming contacts with the youth and provide a reliable market for all agricultural produce whereby the payment terms are cash on delivery. "I also encourage the youth to take advantage of the Sh80 million county revolving fund to set up agribusiness enterprises and take part in agricultural value chains under the new market structure, "said Wambora. The county's Agriculture Executive Anne Nyaga noted the partnership will open limitless opportunities for the youth and provide incentives for more young people to earn a living from agribusiness. She said the market guarantee by Habitat for Trade was a show of trust and confidence in the ability of Embu County Department of Agriculture in its ability to marshal resources and compete nationally and internationally. The key agricultural products under the new market opportunity include tomatoes, onions, capsicum, cabbages, potatoes, sweet potatoes, chilies, kales, spinach, butternut, cucumbers, lettuce, bananas, lemons, passion fruit, pawpaw, avocado, mangoes, oranges, and watermelon.