Kampala — Public universities will close all their tuition fees bank accounts countrywide following the decision by Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) to take over the fees collection for government universities. The Ministry of Finance last month directed URA to start collecting tuition fees for all public universities after learning that some universities were not declaring all the money collected from the students and had ghost enrolment names. Addressing journalists yesterday at the launch of the Staff Insurance Scheme at Kyambogo University, the Vice Chancellor Prof Eli Katunguka said they had been informed that URA would start the fees collection in the 2019/2020 academic year which begins in August. He said they will close all the government university bank accounts since all the money from students and donors will go directly to URA account. "All fees collection accounts in all public universities will be closed since our students are going to start sending money to one account of URA. We are just waiting for official communication and we close the accounts because it will be useless to keep them dormant," Prof Katunguka said. He, however, said currently all universities do not know the modalities URA intends to use to collect tuition. Prof Katungunka said all government universities are writing a communique which they shall present to the ministries of Finance and Education and URA for clarity. He said URA should integrate its system with universities' systems to enable the university management to follow up on students who have not cleared the fees and how much each university has collected every academic year. Loss of jobs There was speculation that bursars and accountants who have been handling tuition fees and related issues will lose jobs since URA will take over their roles. However, Prof Katunguka allayed the fears saying the affected staff will be reassigned other jobs. Last month, Mr Jim Mugunga, the Ministry of Finance spokesperson, confirmed URA would start collecting tuitions fees in order to establish how many students each university has and how much money is collected each academic year. He said the ministry had realised some tuition revenue in some public universities is abused and decided that the fees be collected using a single account. "We realised that there was abuse of funds in our institutions of learning because some of the tuition is being collected but not used. Some tuition is stolen while some money just disappears. So, let URA collect this money, let this money come as government revenue and let it be budgeted for and appropriated," Mr Mugunga told Daily Monitor by telephone last month. Other varsity issues The Vice Chancellor of Kyambogo University, Prof Eli Katunguka, said 400 Kyambogo University staff declined to enrol for the staff medical insurance scheme because of the high monthly deductions from their salaries. Prof Katunguka said out of 938 staff, only 528 have embraced the scheme. He urged heads of departments to sensitise their staff about the importance of the scheme. He said the university would spend Shs1 billion every academic year on the staff health insurance, while 2 per cent of staff salaries would be deducted to top up the university contribution. He directed the directorate of human resource to address the issue of staff who do not have spouses and children who are being charged deductions on salaries the same as those with families. He cited examples of priests and nuns and young single lecturers.