Chinese Ambassador to Kenya Wu Peng on Thursday held a meeting with Deputy President William Ruto, during which he asked nationals to always obey the law. He particularly asked Chinese nationals to do jobs meant for them as per the Kenyan laws. He also assured the government of his country's support and collaboration in development being one of Kenya's largest partner. The Deputy President too assured him of continued mutual cooperation on a win-win basis on which the relations between the two countries is founded. China is Kenya's biggest lender on development projects, having financed the country's largest infrastructural project--the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Mombasa to Nairobi which is being extended to Naivasha. On Tuesday, the ambassador was at the Press Club, an initiative by the Kenya Editors Guild where he spoke about a range of issues touching on the two countries while assuring of continued cooperation. He also reiterated Kenya government's statement that funding for the second phase of the SGR was not part of President Uhuru Kenyatta's visit to China when he attended the second Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) hosted by President Xi Jinping. "I can confirm that funding for Naivasha-Kisumu SGR was not on the agenda of the two Presidents' meeting in Beijing. The Government of Kenya is now focusing on operations of the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR to maximise its overall effects which I believe is a very smart and responsible decision," he said, and urged the media to always report issues factually for the benefit of the general public. The ambassador said that China respects the Kenya Government's decision when to start Naivasha-Kisumu SGR line. He further assured of China's commitment to working closely with Kenyan Government in undertaking infrastructure projects based on economic viability. "Indeed, Rome was not built in a day. China supports Kenya's efforts to improve her infrastructural connectivity, which is key to the country's economic development," he added.