The Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Kenya (AHK), through its Skills Expert Project today launched the AHK Kenya German Dual Vocational Training System in the Private Sector in Kenya. AHK Kenya a German private sector's connection to strong and positive bilateral business relationships abroad, offering both German companies and Kenyan companies services aimed at fostering and supporting smooth business relations. As of the AHK World Business Outlook Survey (Kenya) results released in fall 2018, a quarter of the German companies operating in Kenya who responded to the survey, ranked a lack of skilled labor as a relevant hurdle to investment and business growth in Kenya operations. In addition, the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) Q1 Barometer, 2019, indicates that 63% of the respondent manufacturers intend to increase their labor force in the blue-collar sector. This highlights the threat the widening skills gap plays in the country's industrial and commercial future. The German dual approach to Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) has grown and proven itself to be successful over the last century in Germany, having made a huge impact of the German economic success. It is placed to bridge the gap between the increasing need for theoretical and practical knowledge and real world application of these skills in Kenya by providing young people with the right skill set to start a successful career and provides companies with the trained employees needed to prosper and grow. "As AHK Kenya we do not only tell about the success story and relevance of the German Dual Vocational Training to our partners here in Kenya", emphasizes AHK's Country Director Maren Diale-Schellschmidt. "Instead we use a hands-on approach and establish pilot projects with German and Kenyan companies and offer trainings for companies and partners who wish to follow the idea. I am very proud that we can present some our initiatives here today at this launch. I thank those who already started with us in the pilot activities and we hope to inspire more partners to join in," he added. The German unemployment rate stands at below 6%, which is supported by the reality that 50% of school leavers enroll in vocational training provided by companies. Nearly 70% of these apprentices stay to become full time paid staff who work for the organization for most of their career and specialize in their craft. The results are high transferable skill levels and long-term stability. The dual system encourages the direct involvement and ownership of the industry in the educational process as well as institutional stakeholders and partners.