(Washington, D.C.)- 15 Mai 2019 – BELIEVE IN AFRICA (BIA) is honored to announce its first and largest African diaspora gathering conference called "Making Africa Trade Easy" (MATE) scheduled from September 5th to 7th 2019 at the prestigious Ronald Reagan Building & International Trade Center located at 1300 Pennsylvania Ave NE in Washington, DC 20004, USA. "MATE is a collaborative and nonpartisan effort between the U.S. Agency for International Development and the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center and Believe in Africa to unleash the African Diaspora potential as a catalyst for trade between the U.S. and African economies. This first edition aims at promoting the new U.S. Africa strategy "Prosper Africa" as well as advancing Africa's economic integration," said Mrs. Angelle Kwemo, Founder and Chair of Believe in Africa. She added: "It is more importantly a platform that will allow two-way trade between African businesses and their U.S. counterparts, and therefore help strengthen mutually beneficial partnerships that create wealth, prosperity and lasting jobs on both continents." In attendance will be African Leaders from both the public and private sectors, U.S. Government agencies, African and American Business Leaders, the African Diaspora, potential investors and representatives of relevant international and global Institutions. MATE's program comprises a three-day trade fair, high level discussions, seminars, workshops on how to do business with U.S. agencies, a fashion show and cultural activities. We are expecting 500 selected high-level delegates from the U.S. and Africa, dozens of speakers and exhibitors and 2,000 visitors. Believe in Africa (BIA) is an African Diaspora-led initiative founded by former U.S. congressional staffers and African leaders in the U.S., to empower young Africans, promote the role of the African private sector, harness the power of the African Diaspora, educate policy makers and the public about African economic growth and highlight the continent's gradual rise in the global community. To learn more about BIA visit www.believeinafrica.org  