Police in Kisii have for the last two weeks interrogated two women thought to be Violet Kemunto Omwoyo, the widow of Ali Gichunge who police believe masterminded the Dusit complex terror attack The two women were released after interrogation. OTHER ARTICLES In the first incident in Nyangusu, members of the public became suspicious of a man and woman at a bus terminal who were about to board a Public Service Vehicle headed to Kisii town and alerted police. Those who spoke to the Nation said the two were dressed in Muslim attire, a rarity in the area. KEMUNTO'S FAMILY In addition, Ms Kemunto's family lives just 750 kilometers away from where the two were arrested. "Violet Kemunto comes from around here and when we saw her in the news we were shocked and for that reason we are highly alert. That is the reason we informed the police about them," said Abel Morang'a, a local. Police records indicate the woman, identified as Risper Nyamoita Ogwori, had jetted into the country from the kingdom of Saudi Arabia on March 19, 2019 through the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. The male suspect, identified as Richard Michael Tibuka, 38, told the police that he was a Tanzanian. He did not provide documents proving his nationality. Kisii County Police Commander Martin Kibet said that the two were arrested and later their case handed over to the Anti- Terrorism Police Unit (ATPU). "We made the arrests and later the two were handed over to ATPU for further interrogation. What I have noticed is that people here are highly cautious but I ask members of the public not to worry as everything is in control," he said. HIGHLY SUSPICIOUS On Saturday, members of the public became highly suspicious after another woman changed into three different hijabs. They alerted the police who swang into action and arrested the woman. Mr Kibet said that after interrogation it emerged that the woman had travelled from Mombasa and had gone to visit his son in school. She was released after interrogation. Police believe that Ms Kemunto, also known by her alias as Khadija, crossed into Somalia after the Dusit D2 attack which saw her husband Ali Salim Gichunge killed. Prior to the attack and her subsequent escape, Ms Kemunto had lived in house number E9 IN Guango, a gated community in Mucatha, Ruaka, in Kiambu, county with her husband who police believe was the mastermind of the attack. Posts from Ms Kemunto's Facebook pages depicted a woman who lived the flashy life of a well-to-do, upper middle class Kenyan. A day before the attack, she posted an advertisement online for the sale of household, listing items like a two door Ramtons fridge for Sh 30,000, a rice cooker, a pair of Phat Farm loafers or shoes that would cost 4,000 in bought in a shop, a seven-seater velvet sofa set and a 49-inch smart TV.