Kenyan filmmaker Wanuri Kahiu's has been slammed after lying to her audience in the United Kingdom about not getting support from Kenyans for her gay film 'Rafiki'. On Monday, a video emerged on social media of Wanuri's lecture to a packed auditorium in the United Kingdom in which she blamed Kenyans for not supporting her work. The film is about a young gay couple in a nation where gay sex is still a criminal offence. "The reason 'Rafiki' is not watched in Kenya is that Kenyans didn't advocate for it," she told the audience. EDIT OUT In April last year, the Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) demanded that she edits out parts of the film that were deemed to promote lesbianism, contrary to the law and values of the Kenyans. Wanuri refused and the film was banned in the country. She went to the High Court in September and got temporarily orders lifting the ban to allow the movie to be considered for an award at the Oscars. Wanuri received overwhelming support from Kenyans who flocked cinema theaters to watch the movie after the court lifted the ban. Kenyans were also vocal on social media in condemning KFCB boss Ezekiel Mutua for slapping the ban on the movie. It was therefore a shocker when the video of Wanuri's speech emerged on social media claiming lack of support from Kenyans. On Monday, she was forced to delete several tweets she had posted defending herself from making the claims. She later rectified that the Kenyan audience supported the film and made it one of the highest grossing Kenyan films in opening week. "I am incredibly grateful to their support and continue to make work that shows us as joyful, vibrant people." The Kenyan audience supported the film and made it one of the highest grossing Kenyan films in opening week. I am incredibly grateful to their support and continue to make work that shows us as joyful, vibrant people. - Wanuri (@wanuri) April 29, 2019 Still that did not go down well with Kenyans who called her out for her hypocrisy . Right. @wanuri is a desperate filmmaker who would do anything to receive exposure. The only reason she's getting that much support is because of the demonic gay agenda. The West is trying to force it down Africa's throats. She's a conduit. Shindwe kabisa! - The Real DNA (@apale_di) April 29, 2019 Wanuri had to paint us Kenyans as irreconcilable Homophobes kufurahisha Wazungu na vile we campaigned for mpaka her film broke records in the few days it was allowed to show. As an NGO vice chair once told me, Kenyans will say the most outrageous shit in the midst westerners. - Thanos Did Nothing Wrong (@muya_gichigi_ll) April 29, 2019 I was really hoping that there was context to Wanuri's statement. Kumbe madam flat out said what she said bila aibu. - Magunga Williams (@theMagunga) April 29, 2019 She says it's our fault it's not showing in Kenya then goes on to advise on how we should support. Didn't we support by: 1. Voting for a constitution that advocates for freedom of expression, which is what she used to win her case? 2. Buy out Rafiki showings and filling Prestige? -- M&M (@MonyqueXO) April 29, 2019 Haha. Wanuri is basically telling you to fight for yourselves. 😂. Msipiganie movie zake. She doesn't recognize - Carlasinga (@Kalasinga_) April 29, 2019 man, y'all are some entitled pricks bana. wanuri is saying as long as the movie's maker is black we should buy it. don't matter whether we like it or nah, doesn't even matter if you intend to watch it pic.twitter.com/dzKfDTlSN3 - ʲᵃᵏᵒʸᵘᵍᶦ (@awino_g) April 29, 2019 Kumbe Wanuri is a typical entitled brat like y'all here... .and you almost killed the moustache brat while defending her - Ohta Ryota (@Ohta_Ryota) April 29, 2019 Maybe Wanuri wanted DJ afro to do justice to Rafiki😭😭.. I mean, Kenyans went all out to support her controversial movie to an extent of using mean words on our self-proclaimed moral Police.. Ezekiel Mutua deserves an apology - Hrod-berht_KE (@Hopkins_MK) April 30, 2019 Lmaoo so Wanuri really called us out... now she behaving like our politicians ..alright! - monkeii (@arytiantim) April 29, 2019 Wanuri produced the wrong film, in the wrong country, at the wrong time. Kenyans be too conservative for a gay film. #EzekielWasRight - Maxi Mired (@MaxiMired) April 29, 2019