Kabale — The parish priest of Kitanga Catholic Parish of Kabale Diocese, Fr Gaetano Batanyenda, has likened the Kyadondo East MP, Mr Robert Kyagulanyi, aka Bobi Wine, to Jesus Christ who was despised, crucified and later became saviour of the world. "Leadership comes from God. Who knew that Bobi Wine from the ghetto would be a Member of Parliament? You never know he may be the future President of Uganda. When Jesus Christ was born in a cow's shelter and laid in the cattle trough, the strong leaders and prominent people at the time despised him but now he is celebrated by millions of Christians worldwide over as their saviour," Fr Batanyenda said on Wednesday at a press conference in Kabale Town. Bobi Wine was on Monday arrested and charged at Buganda Road Court over charges related to the protest he led against Over the Top Tax (OTT) in July 2018 and was remanded to Luzira prison but was freed on bail yesterday. Fr Batanyenda said acts of Bobi Wine are not any different from those of Jesus Christ, who opposed the then bad leaders that fought Christianity and wanted people to praise them instead of God. "If those people harassing Bobi Wine for his vision of fighting for the poor; read the Holy Bible on how Jesus became the saviour of the Christians, they would just leave him alone. Those that were in the bush in the 1980s were being castigated by the then regime in power but now they are in charge of the country. Our leaders must learn from history," Fr Batanyenda said. Responding to Fr Batanyenda, the Kabale Resident District Commissioner, Mr Darius Nandinda, said if an ordained priest starts equating disorganised politicians to Jesus Christ, then bishops and the parishioners should begin questioning his priesthood. "How can an ordained priest equate Bobi Wine, who stood on tables of Parliament and started fighting using microphones after failing to debate to Jesus Christ? I am wondering why Fr Batanyenda is so desperate to equate politicians that fail to follow the law to Jesus Christ. "Uganda does not need liberators anymore because the NRM government did that long time ago and majority Ugandans are happy with the NRM leadership that is the reason why they vote majority NRM MPs to government, " Mr Nandinda said. He added that the NRM leaders would not tolerate hooliganism because it is a democratic government and promotes rule of law. Mr Nandinda said liberators conduct themselves basing on the law and understanding the Constitution of their country if their struggles are to be successful but not through defiance. [email protected]