Johannesburg — AVON Justine, the beauty company, has restated its commitment to championing the empowerment of women by aligning its digital platforms. It is also celebrating the milestones achieved by so many of its independent representatives across its operations in Southern Africa. According to the 130-year old company that pioneered the direct-selling model in the beauty industry, the direct selling model gives expression to its drive to foster women empowerment and financial independence. Women are the primary drivers of the beauty industry and Avon Justine believes they should be given an opportunity to reap the benefits of the growth of the beauty and cosmetics industry. According to the Direct Selling Association's latest report, the industry consists of 79 percent women and in the last financial year, they were part of the 1,3 million sales representatives in the industry who earned over R4 billion. "We share the conviction that no country truly ever flourishes if it stifles the potential of its women and deprives itself of the contributions of 51 percent of its citizens," said Mafahle Mareletse, Group Vice President Turkey, Middle East and Africa (TMEA). Mareletse said this was more apt in the countries of Southern Africa where the company operates, which are battling the scourge of domestic abuse and gender-based violence. "We believe that financial independence is one of the most potent tools to combat patriarchy, stimulate economic growth and empower women," Mareletse added. Nishani Singh, Commercial Transformation Director at Avon Justine, outlined the company's digital transformation journey and shared the milestones achieved thus far to align the company to the digital age. Direct Deliveries is a digital store feature for customers. It was introduced earlier this year. "The journey is just the beginning. We will continue to pilot and launch new functionalities and innovations to help support our beauty entrepreneurs to unlock their full earnings potential," Singh said. Avon Justine on Thursday unveiled the inaugural rewards programme, where six top performing sales representatives in the past quarter from across sub-Saharan Africa, drove away with a luxury car, each worth over R170 000. The winners were Daan Charles (Namibia), Arthur Colette (South Africa), Kanyiso Dick (Zimbabwe), Millicent Dudu (South Africa), Liza Truter (South Africa) and Mirriam Zodwaa (South Africa). "Our sales representatives are the engine of our growth, and it is only fitting that we incentivize and reward them for the hard work they are doing in growing Avon Justine products and making it the preferred beauty and cosmetics brand in South Africa," said Mikey Bicknell, Sales Director for Avon Justine.