Embu — The construction and equipping of a state-of-the-art milk processing plant in Embu County has started. Making the announcement, Embu Governor Martin Wambora said the project which will cost Sh300 Million is expected to step up value addition efforts in the dairy sector in the county. The plant will be located in Ugweri. Speaking in Embu, Governor Wambora said the county government chose Ugweri due to its proximity to major milk producing areas of the county. The plant will process long life milk, fresh milk, yoghurt, mala, ghee and butter. Embu's dairy industry has expanded rapidly in recent years, in tandem with the rising demand for processed milk driven by a growing middle class. Embu County is a big producer of dairy products in the Mt Kenya region. Set on a 3.5-acre piece of land, the plant will have a capacity of processing 48,000 litres of milk per day. The county government will deploy equipment for Ultra Heat Treatment (UHT) and Extended Shelf Life (ESL). The Governor expressed confidence that the plant will be capable to produce enough milk to supply pupils under the Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) programme in the entire county. "The state-of-the-art facility will utilize the most current technology available in the market becoming one of the newest processing facility in the country," said Wambora. Embu County CEC Agriculture, Annie Nyaga said that County Government has already installed 13 coolers in collaboration with the national government and is in the process of installing 10 more with a total capacity of 65,000 litres of milk. "The county government has also mobilized over 16 milk co-operatives who are already selling milk as a result of installing the coolers," she said, adding that plans are underway to install another 13 milk coolers in the next financial year. All the coolers are located in major dairy farming areas of the county and will supply milk to the processing plant at competitive prices. The plant will also supply its branded poly pack milk variants for consumers across the Mt Kenya region.