The United Nations Food for Agriculture Organisation (UNFOA) has launched the Country Programme Framework (CPF) in Nigeria as part of the organisation's efforts to promote agriculture in the country. The launch took place on Tuesday at the Nicon Luxury Hotel in Abuja. The CPF is a medium-term priority framework, derived from nationally defined priorities and objectives to be achieved over a five year period of the programming cycle. The framework covers the main areas of FAO work in Nigeria, with the aims to achieve zero hunger and contribute to the attainment of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Speaking at the launch, the FAO representative, Suffyan Koroma, said the framework will focus on food and nutrition security, support effective and operational framework, support Nigeria's economic diversity and decent employment, and enhance disaster risk management in the country with resilience. He said it aligns with the FAO strategic objectives of sustainable inclusive development growth. He said the CPF preparation started from a formal request by the Nigerian government in 2017. Mr Koroma said the framework also looks forward to helping in creating peace between farmers and herders, especially in Benue and Nassarawa states. It also aims at improving the efficient and sustainable management of natural resources, he said. Mr Koroma said the current CPF is building on the 2013- 2017 CPF by noting its achievements and learning from its challenges. He listed the objectives of the framework as promoting school garden for better nutrition and learning skill, mainstreaming nutrition education in Agriculture, and learning extension and urban food system development. The CPF will also offer support for appropriate and operationally effective agricultural policies. Speaking at the event, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Audu Ogbeh, said climate change has been a major issue for agriculture across the country. He said beyond that climate change has been a danger to human inhabitation. He also noted the danger of tree falling across the country for firewood and for export. He said part of the disappearance of the forest today is responsible for the drying up of the Lake Chad. "Desertification is on its way to Nigeria so far we continue the cutting down of trees," Mr Ogbeh said He said the country also needs quality seeds that can endure high temperature and also give good yields.