With 1 billion monthly active users as of last year, Instagram is undoubtedly one of the most popular social networking apps in the world. It has truly been a blessing for those who have figured it out as a content creating platform. Not to be left behind are Kenyan Instagram Beauty Influencers who are shaking up the industry with their wide-ranging representation, bold looks, and out-of-the-box style that challenges traditional beauty standards that we were used to for the longest time. They are creating interesting campaigns for different demographics (paid or not paid). Remember how back in the day we used to purely depend on international glossy fashion magazines that told us which shades were in or out, what skin product we needed to use or who was using them so we could all jump onto the bandwagon?  Today the beauty influencer marketing is big, and brands are benefiting big time too. You can find new fashion icons by scrolling through your phone and learn complicated makeup tips with the tap of your finger on a relevant video every single day. These Kenyan Beauties, each popular in their own right and curved out a niche for themselves, are known for their highly-subscribed YouTube channels and Instagram accounts where  they provide makeup tutorials, and beauty tips and tricks, which are loved by their audience. Here are the 8 top popular beauty influencers (with a vlogging and instagram account) in Kenya you need to keep an eye on, as ranked by Capital Lifestyle (no particular order). Patricia Kihoro She describes herself as a Kenyan based singer, actress, and radio personality who loves coffee, bacon, Kitenge fabric and laughter. She is also a social media influencer with a presence on Instagram with a following of 162000 followers and 23000 subscribers on You Tube. She is well known for her approachable, easy-to-follow makeup tutorials while seemingly having so much fun while at it. Joanna Kinuthia She is a girl who loves makeup, hoping to infect you with some of the love through her social media platforms. Joanna, a gorgeous lady, is indeed one of the fastest growing influencers in Kenya in recent times. She quit her job to focus on content creation full time and is proud to have already made her first million (ching ching) from her own make up line, Joanna Kinuthia Cosmetics. She has 64000 Followers on Instagram and 78000 subscribers on you tube. Nancie Mwai Nancie’s love for fashion began as a young girl with her dream to become a professional fashion designer. Many years down the line, she says, “Who knew that years dressing up barbie dolls in original creations would lead her to a career in the fashion industry.” Nancie, who describes herself as a fashion and beauty vlogger, continues to share the story of her life and passion for content creation through her online channels, which include a you tube channel with 41000 subscribers and 93, 800 instagram followers. Her flawless foundation application tips and looks transformation are a sight to behold. Kangai Mwiti This gorgeous beauty is an award-winning makeup artist who describes herself as a digital strategist specializing in the beauty, IT, and digital industry. Known as the face and founder of Bellesa Africa, she offers makeup and beauty tips on her Instagram platform which has 23000 followers. On You tube, she has two channels; One has  104,000 subscribers while the other has  378 subscribers. Sheila Ndinda Popularly known as the Kenyan Naturalista, Sheila is passionate about educating women on how to achieve healthy hair. Her online platforms are a place where she expresses her love for Natural hair and shares her joys and experiences with different products. She is naturalista beauty influencer with a following of  131,000 on Instagram and another 70,000 subscribers on You tube. Natalie Tewa This beauty is a blogger and vlogger who shares gorgeous pictures, fashion inspiration and candid beauty reviews on her various platforms. She describes herself as a natural introvert who loves beauty, with 99,500 followers on Instagram and 34000 subscribers on you tube.  In one of her most popular videos, she shares all about her acne challenges. Joy Kendi Joy Kendi is a lifestyle blogger, vlogger and content creator on matters fashion and beauty. She is a bold, happy go lucky girl who is constantly teaching herself along the way to allow for continuous growth in her profession on either her you tube platform with 25000 subscribers or her Instagram platform which has 169,000 followers. Fashionable StepMum Catherine, the creator of Fashionable Stepmum, started her social media platforms to highlight her transition from a single girl to a step mum. The way she has managed to incorporate beauty into her content creation of stepmum, is for sure admirable. She has 55,000 followers on Instagram and 9,600 subscribers on You tube. She is very real about her journey as a step mum, but also infuses this with her beauty and fashion tips. She is a force to reckon with in the industry. Salute to you all, keep keeping on.