Kampala — Government has formulated a new transport policy to regulate the industry. This was revealed by the State minister for Transport, Mr Aggrey Bagiire, last Friday while launching Victoria University's Chartered institute of Logistics and Transport in Kampala. Mr Bagiire said once Cabinet approves the policy, it will provide guidelines on which type of vehicles should be driven in specific areas and will also determine who will be in charge of transport planning in the country. He said the policy will determine what qualifications one should possess to work in the government transport sector. "Out of all the government officials in transport and logistics sector, only 20 have acquired skills in this field. This means the country is still in need of people who can plan cheap and reliable transport for this country," Mr Bagiire said. He said the launch of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport is crucial since the country is constructing airports in different parts of the country following the revival of Uganda Airlines. The government is also constructing a port in Bukasa, among other major infrastructure developments across the country. Mr Bagiire said only skilled personnel will work in those major infrastructures. The Vice Chancellor of Victoria University, Prof Krishna Sharma, said instead of importing expatriates, government should train Ugandans to manage the upcoming major infrastructure developments in the country. He said the university initiated the course in transport and logistics to prepare Ugandans with skills in the transport sector. "Government should not get people from abroad to build Uganda's capacity. This training is timely since Ugandans will acquire internationally certified papers and will be able to compete with others," Mr Krishna said. The school has given affirmative action for women seeking to enrol for the transport course. Ms Faridah Ashaba, a pilot, decried the few women in the transport sector. Ms Ashaba said it is rare to find a bus driver who is female. In Kampala, for instance, a draft of the Multi-Modal Transport master plan for Greater Kampala recommends the development of a comfortable, wide and safe non motorised transport (NMT) connecting all parts of Greater Kampala. Such connectivity, the report adds, will encourage the population to walk and cycle on a daily basis unhindered. According to the masterplan, the optimal NMT corridor project, once implemented, shall have a combination of improved transport models, including segregated and wee-marked paths for cyclists and pedestrians.