South Africa- It is an expensive route but one which Uganda is determined to take to sell its tourism both within and beyond Africa. The determination is an ongoing agenda by Uganda Tourism Board (UTB) to mobilse Ugandans to exhibit the country to the international market whenever there is an opportunity. "We [Uganda] need to keep presence in [international expos] because many people are selling wildlife," Mr Herman Olimi, the UTB marketing officer, says highlighting that this should be a purposed agenda for every Uganda. Uganda, he says, must sell its tourism in forums such as Africa's Travel Indaba, which was concluded last week in Durban South Africa. UTB mobilised well and a number of tour operators and other stakeholdres, some of whom were denied visas to enter South Africa, represented Uganda at one of Africa's biggest tour and travel gatherings. The handsome representation, Mr Olimi believes, is an opportunity to expose Uganda to the rest of world as well as promote intra-Africa tourism. "We expect a lot after this [Indaba]. We are optimistic on getting actual business," he said on the sidelines of Africa's Travel Indaba. Uganda's tourism arrivals had stagnated over the years at or about 1.4 million. However, according to Mr Stephen Asiimwe, the outgoing UTB chief executive officer, improved to about 200,000 visitors last year. This saw tourism numbers hit 1.6 million, according to data from Uganda Bureau of Statistics. Uganda is seeking to grow tourism numbers to 2.2 million visitors before the end of this year and four million by 2020. The theme of Africa's Travel Indaba - Stimulating intra-Africa travel through leadership - worked well with Uganda's agenda that seeks to sell tourism within Africa and then to the rest of the world. "By coming for Africa's Travel Indaba, there is intra-Africa tourism promotion among many African countries and showcasing the products in their respective countries to an audience that is predominantly African," Prof Ephraim Kamuntu, the Tourism minister, says. Therefore, he says, this will help Uganda to market its tourism, away from traditional source markets with the desire to recruit new visitors. Uganda is home to 54 per cent of the prized world's mountain gorillas and chimpanzees. The country has a diversity of wildlife including thousands of bird species, culinary offerings, beautiful weather and landscapes, among others. Uganda, according to Prof Kamuntu has for historical reasons marketed its tourism in traditional markets such as the UK, US, Germany speaking countries and now China, Japan and UAE but there is need to promote intra-Africa tourism as well. This, together with sustained security both at macro and political level and improved infrastructure, he says, will help grow tourism numbers to generate increased revenue. Tourism currently earns Uganda $1.4m in gross domestic product. Previous participation Last month, Uganda participated in the ITB Berlin, the world's largest tourism trade fair that brings together leading hotels, tourist boards, tour operators, system providers, airlines and car rental companies. UTB participated in the fair and showcased Uganda's cultural traditions. Part of the outstanding exhibition was the traditional wear of the Buganda kingdom. [email protected]