A statement by Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala that the Lake Nakuru National Park has lost its lustre has sparked sharp reactions from local stakeholders. Lake Nakuru Lodge director Joseph Muya said the statement by Mr Balala that the lake is dead was a bombshell to investors in the park. "Since the statement was widely publicised, many tour companies in Europe, South America and Far East have called and threatened to cancel their bookings," Mr Muya said. He added: "With this kind of statement, clients both local and international are calling to inquire whether it's still worthwhile to visit the park. This is raising a lot of concern to us in the hospitality industry as we have invested millions of shillings." HIGH SEASON He said the statement came at a time when the country is expecting a high season of tourists from June. "Lake Nakuru has been named the second most beautiful spot across the globe by the world's reputable scientific and educational institution, the National Geographic, which means it has more to offer," Mr Muya said. Lake Nakuru is described as the birdwatcher's paradise that lies on the floor of the Great Rift Valley surrounded by wooded and bushy grasslands with over 400 bird species. JOBS Mr Muya said the statement has also put on the line the jobs of hundreds of workers in the four tourists hotels situated in the park. According to Mr Balala, the park is losing its lustre due to declining flamingos. But Mr Muya said that flamingos started migrating due to poor solid waste management by the Nakuru County government. "I'm surprised that the county government has not reacted to the negative statement, yet the massive pollution is as a result of poor waste management which is a function of the county government," Mr Muya said. He added: "The four hotels have not in any way contributed to the pollution of the lake. Instead, they have contributed to the improvement of local and national economy by employing many locals directly and indirectly. They also participate in the conservation of the ecosystem around the park." Hotels in the park include Lake Nakuru Lodge, Sarova Lions Hills, Flamingo Lodge, Lions hotel and Sopa Lodge. POLLUTION MONITORING Mr Muya wondered why the county government is not using a pollution monitoring research centre at the park to be jointly managed by Kenya Wildlife Service to monitor pollution at the lake. He revealed that many of the stakeholders in the hospitality industry who have suffered a severe beating due to tourist numbers dipping after prolonged electioneering have been visiting Europe and other destinations in the Far East to market Lake Nakuru using their own money. MARKETING PARK "It hurts me to read statements describing Lake Nakuru National Park as a dead facility, yet some of us have been travelling across the world marketing the park," said Mr Muya, who is also the founder of Cycle with Rhino initiative which seeks to raise funds to erect an electric fence around the 188-square kilometre park. He denied claims that the big four animals have disappeared from Lake Nakuru, which is also regarded as a Unesco world heritage site. "All the big four are in the park save for elephants which have never been in the park," he added.