The African Union Commission (AUC) in partnership with All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) has unveiled programme of events for the sixth edition of the awards in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. After five outstanding editions of AFRIMA from 2014 to 2018, the sixth edition of the awards will continue in the tradition of celebrating the musical culture of Africa by featuring Pan-Africa events throughout 2019. This was contained in a statement signed by the Acting Director of Social Affairs, Mr Machacha Shepande and copied to Times Weekend in Accra on Wednesday. VGMAThe main awards ceremony would be held from November 6 to 9, later in the year, which would be preceded by a Welcome Soiree, AFRIMA Music Village, a tour, Africa Music Business Summit and an exclusive Nominees' Party. Activities leading up to the main awards ceremony include submission by African music professionals either living on the continent or in the diaspora is expected to submit their entries which are globally open on www.afrima.org from May 15 to August 2. There would also be a pre-screening process by the screening committee of AFRIMA from August 3 to 5, followed by the AFRIMA Adjudication process from August 6 to August 12 to be conducted by an independent international jury comprising of a 13-member panel of experienced and respected African music experts and practitioners. On August 13, a world media announcement of AFRIMA nominee list would be publicly unveiled to declare nominated African artists or works and on August 19 , there would be a voting process to be conducted on AFRIMA's website by music fans and followers across the globe. Other activities leading up to main event include conferences, stakeholders meetings, festivals, speaking engagements, university campus concert and courtesy calls to heads of governments and leaders of institutions in corporate and government sectors across the five regions of Africa to achieve an all-round engagement with all relevant AFRIMA stakeholders. AFRIMA is a music property that recognises and rewards the work and talent of a myriad of African artistes from the old to the new generation of musicians. Ghana hosted the 2018 edition of the awards in partnership with the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture.