Huduma Namba was the most searched item on Google by Kenyans in the latest trends released by the search engine for the month of April. Huduma Namba is a mass registration drive that seeks to collect biometric data from Kenyans and foreigners residing in the country with the aim of creating a central population database dubbed the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS). Next in Google's most searched for item was popular American hip hop artiste, the late Nipsey Hussle. The rapper, whose real name is Ermias Asghedom, died at the tender age of 33 after being fatally shot outside his clothing store in Los Angeles. Third on the list was Uefa Europa League fixture between Italian side Napoli and English giant Arsenal. In the match, which was played at San Paolo, Arsenal breezed into the semi-finals of the tournament thanks to Alexandre Lacazette's first-half free kick. IVY'S MURDER The fourth trending item was Kenya's giant gaming company SportPesa followed by fictional supervillain, Thanos who appears in American comic books and superhero movies. The fictional character is one of the main leads in the movie Avengers: Endgame which premiered worldwide on April 26th. Jonathan Moi, the eldest son of former president Daniel Arap Moi came in sixth. Jonathan, 64, passed away at Mediheal Hospital in Nakuru after he was diagnosed with cancer. At number seven was the gruesome killing of 25-year-old Moi University sixth-year medical student Ivy Wangechi by her alleged lover Naftali Kinuthia. The eighth most searched for item was Cyclone Kenneth which wrecked havoc in Mozambique, killing dozens of people. Cyclone Kenneth was the second powerful tropical storm to hit southeast Africa in a span of only five weeks. HOW TO CATEGORY In ninth place was the terrorist bombing attacks in Sri Lanka on Easter Sunday, where over 250 people died, including at least 42 foreign nationals and three police officers. More than 500 innocent people were also injured in the attacks. At number 10 was the captivating story of the Kakamega 'twins' who are suspected to have been separated at birth only to reunite 19 years later. In the 'How to' category, the most trending search was, 'How to lose weight' followed by 'How to withdraw money from SportPesa', 'How to cook mandazi', 'How to join Illuminati', 'How to book SGR' and 'How to hack a phone'. Google Search Trends is a publicly available tool that indicates search patterns over a period of time and shows the clusters of searches that made it to the weekly trending searches in the country.