Kampala — Parliament yesterday failed to debate the Road Bill 2018 that was introduced by the government last year with an aim of managing the road network in the country. The debate of the Bill was deferred to yesterday on Tuesday by Deputy Speaker Jacob Oulanyah after the presentation of the report of the Committee on Physical Infrastructure by the Nakifuma County MP Robert Ssekitoleko Kafeero and a minority report by Erute South MP Jonathan Odur. The Speaker deferred the debate on the Bill because he needed to adjourn the House before 6pm to "give time for the members who are Muslims to prepare for breaking of the fast". The Muslims world started the holy month of Ramadan on Monday. The State minister for Works, Gen Edward Katumba Wamala, said the road network in the country has improved hence the need for a new law to regulate management and maintenance of the roads. "The Roads Bill seeks to repeal and replace the Road Act, which does not efficiently cover matters of management of the roads in this country. We need to ensure there is an efficient road network," Gen Katumba said. However, when the Speaker opened the motion for debate, it was observed that the committee chairperson, Mr Ssekitoleko, and his Vice Chairperson George Wilson Kumama (Bbaale County) were attending a function in Kayunga District. Proposing changes In its report, the committee supported the road toll, road reserves, road safety measures, access to the roads, and the vehicle load control but proposed key changes in the penalties to the defined offences. On the road reserves of a minimum of 40 metres to be observed on either side of the road right away from the middle of the road, the committee recommended that such should be effected after the roads authority to be created acquires the land from the owners. "The committee recommends that the roads authority should first acquire land in accordance with Article 26 of the Constitution of Uganda and therefore reserve after acquisition," the committee noted. On the offences, the committee recommended for the reduction of the heft penalties which it described as "outrightly exorbitant and unrealistic" hence rendering the law hard to implement. Significant among the penalties is the Shs400m equivalent to 20,000 currency point's fine for whoever will fail to comply with the building lines. But the committee recommended that this be reduced to Shs500,000 equivalent to 25 currency points. A currency point is equal to Shs20,000. In the Bill, the government had also suggested Shs20m (1,000 currency points) for whoever would be found guilty of failing to pay the road tolls although the committee has suggested Shs10m (500 currency points). Minority report However, in his minority report, Mr Odur, who did not differ with the suggested reduction on the penalties, raised three concerns as points of departure with the main report. Mr Odur said the committee did not carry out the countrywide consultations by cancelling the already agreed upon work plan of conducting regional meetings with the different stakeholders. He also opposed the committee position on the declaration of the road reserves. About the bill Collecting money. The Roads Bill 2018 address the introduction of road tolls whereby government would collect money from vehicles using specific roads, the increment of the road reserve from the current 15 metres to 40 metres on either side of the road, vehicle load control, road safety, accessibility, and offences and penalties. [email protected]