Fashion, they say is an instant language that speaks through appearance rather than words, It can be difficult to articulate the power of style and fashion through words. As Diana Vreeland puts it "Fashion is part of the daily air and it changes all the time, with all the events. You can even see the approaching of a revolution in clothes." The case was no different at the 20th Vodafone Ghana Music Awards (VGMA) as dignitaries and patrons rocked the red carpet section with fashion styles from various designers. The Accra International Conference Centre (AICC) was on last Saturday full of Glitz, style and glam as the most anticipated night of the year in fashion and music took place. The annual event had many Ghanaians glued to their television sets just to get a glimpse of 'who wore what' as well as obtaining new fashion tips, ideas and styles from their favourite celebrities. With some celebrities taking risk just to look their best to excite fans and audiences with breath taking clothes others just went off board. King Promise and Lydia Forson who dazzled the audience with 'trainers' that became the talk of the week and mockery on social media, seemed to have shared the same belief with Bette Midler who once said "I firmly believe that with the right footwear one can rule the world." Actress Rosemond Brown popularly known as Akuapem Poloo appeared in a neatly black gown, then later exceeded expectations when she removed the gown to reveal a 'naked' look, tips many believed she imitated from America's music icon "Lady Gaga." Stars like Jennifer Lopez, Kendall Jenner and Laverne Cox have all experimented with this "naked" fashion trends but in a more exquisite way contrary to Akupem Poloo's wear. Wendy Shay appeared in a mermaid gown that wow the audiences with Zynell Zuh controlling the night with a beautiful white jam suit with one shoulder puff up. Cina Soul got tongues wagging as she appeared in a fish-like costume, accompanied by a young lad dressed in Ga traditional costume which got social media users fuming against the act. The attention of 'who wore what' and crucially who wore it best created fun at the night, with some people disappointed that Patapaa Amisty didn't appear on the carpet, Times Weekend present to you the best and worse dress of the night, make your judgement!