The ambassador of the United States to Rwanda, Peter Vrooman, on Thursday paid a courtesy call on the Rwandan senate, and held discussions with the upper chamber on bilateral relations between the two countries, regional security, among other issues. The discussions focused on peace and security, economic growth, inclusive development, as well as democracy and human rights, which, according to Vrooman are four key goals of the US mission in Rwanda, "and they correspond very much with the four committees of the Senate." After the meeting, Bernard Makuza, the president of the Senate, said in an interview with the media, that he also briefed the envoy about regional security issues ranging from terror groups to Rwandan forces that are carrying out peacekeeping missions in different countries in Africa, "We also talked about Rwandan forces that are on peacekeeping missions in different parts of the world including places like Sudan, South Sudan, and Central Africa," he said. Makuza said that participation in global peacekeeping is a deliberate decision by the Government of Rwanda to help prevent atrocities. He added: We thank the US because we recognise that they have the will to support this cause and we see it continuing". "We talked about terror groups in the region. The US has put efforts in fighting the Islamic State terror group which was a threat to the world. "We briefed him as well about terror groups in the region like FDLR and the people that are supporting them. We discussed this because it is not something that a person can keep quiet about, since the security of one country is connected to another one's safety," he said. Makuza called upon the US to continue supporting efforts to bring to justice people that committed genocide against the Tutsi. The discussion also covered sectors such as investment, education, democracy, among others. "What Rwanda is going through in terms of reconciliation in the 25 years since the genocide against the Tutsi is incredibly important in building the new identity of Rwandans," said Vrooman in an interview. He added: "That is something that I think the world in general can learn from. So we are very attentive, and I have learned a lot in my first year here in Rwanda about that," he said.