The ancient town of Agbor, Delta State, literarily stood still on Monday, May 27, 2019, as no fewer than 20,000 excited guests poured into Government Field playground, Agbor Obi, for this year's Children's Day Carnival. Put together by Regina Daniels, the fast rising Nollywood actress and wife of Delta politician, Prince Ned Munir Nwoko, under the auspices of her Regina Daniels Charity Foundation, the event was essentially to felicitate with children in primary and secondary schools. It was also aimed at assisting them with items such as, books, bags, writing materials, bicycles, toys and some essentials of life. Hundreds of them actually benefitted from the exercise, which Daniels said, "would continue to be a yearly event." The Children's Day activities, which were partly organised by the Ika North East and Ika South councils, had begun with march past competition by no fewer than 30 public and private primary and secondary schools with representative of the Nigeria Police Agbor Area Commander and officials of the two council areas taking salute. No sooner had the march past ended at about 3:00pm that the entire space was taken over by school children, parents and many other admirers of Regina Daniels, who has become a brand in the entertainment industry. In fact, it was no surprise that a host of celebrities cutting across different genres of the creative industry -- music, acting and comedy -- were in attendance. Leading the pack of the musicians was Tiwa Savage, a celebrated, crowd-pulling singer of the hip pop genre. She literarily set the stage on fire with the crowd almost causing stampede when she belched some of her songs. Other artistes who performed include, Zlatan Ibile, Patoranking, Africa China, Erigga, Sam White and MC Galaxy. They took time to thrill guests with some of their best songs. As each one of themmounted the stage, the audience gave them endorsement with the manner they chorused their names and sang along. But more conspicuous at the event was the Nollywood family. Ably represented by Ejike Asiegbu, Bob-Manuel Udokwu, Alex Usifo, Zulu 'Zik' Okafor and Chinedu Ikedieze, they provided guests opportunity to rate the carnival highly. Gordons and other comedians also graced the occasion. Some of the ladies who came to the event with their children could be heard expressing their happiness for being able to make it to the venue. As many of them struggled to catch a glimpse of Regina Daniels who ostensibly has become their 'idol' the population continued to increase and almost making it impossible for event photographers and camera men to take good shots of artistes on stage. Policemen, officials of the Nigerian Security & Civil Defence Corp, Federal Road & Safety Commission and private security guards had hectic time controlling the crowd. They probably had underestimated the number of people expected at the event. It was hectic time for Daniels as she tried to pass her message across to the children. While on stage in company of her husband, she had taken time to advise children to learn to live decently by not indulging in drug related activities and other social vices that could ruin their life. The joy of the children knew no bounds as they received some gift items from the actress. One of the people who came for the show, Elizabeth Osemeke, told The Guardian, "Regina Daniels made the activities more than imagined." She added, "this was quite from what we used to have on May 27." The carnival, which lasted till evening hours was only part of activities ear-marked by Regina Daniels for the day as guests later shifted to the country home of Nwoko at Idumuje-Ugboko in Aniocha North Council of Delta State. Musicians, Nollywood personalities, comedians and many others were there to wine and dine just as music of different genre was supplied. It was certainly another time to felicitate with Regina Daniels and her family as she took time to move around to appreciate guests who had helped to make her day.