The European Union (EU) has called on the country's political leadership to work together to end violence which poses a threat to democracy, peace and stability. Diana Acconcia, Ambassador and Head of the EU Delegation in Ghana, who made the call, said this would ensure the creation of conducive environment for socioeconomic growth and respect for human rights and rule of law. "Ghana's democracy, peace and stability are a treasure as well as an asset to support economic growth. I have heard the commitment at the highest level to stop the political violence. I trust that action will come and all those involved will let reason prevail over the desire to win at all costs," she stated. She was speaking on Wednesday in Accra during the celebration of this year's Europe Day. It was on the theme "Designing for the Future: An exhibition for a Waste Free World." The event was attended by EU member states, ambassadors and officials in Ghana, members of the diplomatic corps, Ministers of state, civil society groups, EU projects officials, among others. She said the EU values its cooperation with Ghana due to common values and objectives in fighting corruption, reinforcement of human rights and rule of law and decentralisation strategy for good governance. This cooperation, Ambassador Acconcia said, has resulted in a number of supports for Ghana's development agenda including a €40 million Euro grant to undertake reforms under the G20 Compact for Africa to boost Ghana's attractiveness as an investment destination. As a major partner of the EU, she stated that, Ghana and other African countries could access the EU's External Investment Plan which seeks to invest €4.5 billion Euros from the EU's budget to explore economic growth potentials for development and job creation to boost private investment. As a measure to curb the fight of climate change and accompanying effect, the Ambassador noted that the EU was implementing the Agriculture Programme in the northern part of Ghana which has a substantial component of adaptation to climate change and support to renewable energy. Within the next months, the EU would roll out initiatives support the country in the implementation of its national contributions to deal with the challenges of climate change. Minister of Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation (MESTI), Professor Kwabena Frimpong Boateng, said Ghana was grateful to the EU for its support of over €1.2 billion Euros which has been allocated to various sectors including transport and infrastructure, environment and natural resources, agriculture and rural development among others within years of cooperation. He urged for increased trade between Ghana and member states of the Union to help in the realisation of the government's 'Ghana Beyond Aid' agenda. The Minister called on the EU to partner Ghana in finding lasting solutions to insecurity in the Sahel region, noting that there was the need for concerted efforts to tackle terrorism. Ghana, Prof. Frimpong Boateng stated that would continue to solidify its position as a peaceful, stable and democratic nation to promote economic growth.