The government has discounted reports circulating on social media that the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS), christened Huduma Namba, has been hacked. On Thursday, reports made rounds on social media claiming that a University of Nairobi IT student, Enock Ovitah alias Jakuo had been arrested for deleting files containing data collected from Kenyans who had registered for the Huduma Namba. Through their official Twitter handle, the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government headed by Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i on Saturday evening refuted the alleged hacking and deletion of Huduma Namba files terming it fake news. Kindly treat fake news circulating claiming #HudumaNamba has been hacked with the contempt they deserve. The exercise is ongoing with 23.5 million people already registered. Report any misleading information you spot. pic.twitter.com/uB0vRjrrzW - InteriorCNG Ministry (@InteriorKE) May 4, 2019 "Kindly treat fake news circulating claiming Huduma Namba has been hacked with the contempt they deserve. The exercise is ongoing with 23.5 million people already registered. Report any misleading information you spot," read the tweet. Wangui Muchiri, the Interior Ministry spokesperson has also dismissed the claims: "News circulating claiming to have hacked Huduma Namba is utterly false. The exercise is going strong with 23.5 million secure registered persons," she tweeted. The National Government Communications Centre (NGCC) also said that the authorities had put in place strict security measures to secure the personal information entrusted to the government during the registration process. "The Government tested and subsequently put in a place a comprehensive spectrum of security measures long before rolling out the mass registration exercise. Hence, the reports about the hacking of the Huduma Namba system is fake and should be duly ignored," the communication unit stated. Kenyans will still be able to register for the Huduma Namba even after the May 17 deadline. According to an official, the kits will be taken to chief's offices where Kenyans can continue registering.