Northern state governors yesterday told President Muhammadu Buhari that banditry in some states in the region is gradually graduating into insurgency. The governors met the president at the State House, Abuja over the rising insecurity in the north held. The meeting, which held behind closed doors, lasted for about an hour. Those in attendance include Kashim Shettima (Borno), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Aminu Bello Masari (Katisna) and Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto). Others were Muhammad Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger), and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara). Governor Masari, who briefed journalists, said they met the president based on a resolution of the Northern state governors' forum at a meeting in Kaduna 10 days ago. "North east is known for Boko Haram insurgency but of recent what was known to be cattle rustling in North West and some parts of North Central has turned out to be something different from what we had before. "So, this concern made us to come and brief the president so that urgent action would be taken in order to curb this deadly menace of banditry which is gradually graduating into insurgency," he said. On Magajin Garin Daura, who was abducted 26 days ago, Masari said the police have made some progress "but for obvious reasons, they cannot disclose all what they have done for security reasons but work is going on." I won't let the nation down - Buhari Buhari told the governors that he will not let the nation down. He said: "The security of the country is on my mind 24 hours of the day. I get daily and weekly situation reports. I have listened to your brief. I will look into your recommendations. I am acutely aware of the situation, but I have learnt more today." He bemoaned the ravaging effect of unchecked corruption in the past on the country's Armed Forces, adding that "we have curbed much of the corruption that is there. "We are not going as fast as we want under the system, but we will keep trying to improve it." He also expressed interest in getting reports from governors who have difficult relationships with security heads in their states.