Khartoum — The staff of the Sudanese Electricity Distribution Company (SEDC) in Khartoum entered a general strike on Sunday, due to repeated power cuts without justification. They conditioned lifting the strike with dismissing the SEDC general manager and his deputy. At a press conference in Khartoum on Monday, they also demanded to dismiss all the figures of the former regime in the company and restore the former National Corporation for Electricity and the separation of the water bill from the electricity bill, which are now billed together. A statement by the Sudanese Doctors Central Committee pointed to the occurrence of some injuries to the demonstrators in front of the offices of the Sudanese Electricity Distribution Company in downtown Khartoum yesterday, in addition to other cases of suffocation with tear gas in Khartoum North, as government forces acted to disperse demonstrators. Sudanese Mining Company The employees of the Sudanese Mining Company decided to enter into an open strike on Sunday until the demands are met. The personnel of Sudanese Airlines held a protest in Khartoum on Monday in support of the intifada, a pay rise, and a better work environment. The sit-in at the Kenana Sugar Company that started earlier this month continues. The striking staff protest the injustice and corruption experienced by the company during the former regime. On Tuesday morning, the Teachers Committee of the Sudanese Professionals Association in El Geneina in West Darfur will launch a protest march. The Committee said in a statement that the march is in order to restore the rights of the teacher, exclude the figures of the former regime from the decision-making sites, return the arbitrarily dismissed teachers, and dissolve the trade unions established by the former regime. Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about ongoing protests to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of cholera, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.